["OVERVIEW\n\nThe first task when setting up SFU Print on an unmanaged macOS device running Sonoma (14.x). This guide demonstrates where to obtain the correct drivers for SFU Print devices and how to install them.", "DETAILS\n\nGo to https://support.ricoh.com/bb/html/dr_ut_e/rc3/model/mpc4504ex/mpc4504ex.htm and Download driver. After downloading the file, navigate to the folder where it is saved and double-click on the file with the DMG extension. Now double click on .pkg file to start the driver installation. Click \"Continue\" Again \"Continue\" Click \"Agree\" Click \u201cInstall\u201d. You will be asked to authenticate, by password or Touch ID Click \"Close\" once installation is successful. You can now eject the downloaded Ricoh drive and move it to the trash.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThe task required to set up SFU Print on an unmanaged macOS device running Sonoma (14.x). This guide demonstrates how to install and configure the Papercut client in order to print to SFU Print devices.", "DETAILS\n\nBefore starting, please note that setup must be completed on campus. Click Finder --> Go --> Connect to Server... In the dialog box type, smb://cs-sfuprint.dc.sfu.ca/PCClient/ and click + sign to remember. Now click \"Connect\" You might be asked to authenticate against Active Directory, select \"Registered User\" and enter your SFU username (ADSFU\\your_user_ID) and password, check \"Remember this password in my keychain. Once authenticated right-click on the mac folder and copy to your desktop Go to the copied \"mac\" folder and double click on \"client-local-install.app\" Accept install to Application folder click on Allow Enter SFU user ID and password and check \"Remember my identity\" Once installed icon should show up in the toolbar (sometimes it is inverted or on some laptops can be hidden behind a camera notch)", "IMPORTANT:\n\nClient must be running before you send print job to the printer", "OVERVIEW\n\nThe final task required to set up SFU Print on an unmanaged macOS device running Sonoma (14.x). This guide demonstrates how to install and configure the computer to print to SFU Print devices.", "DETAILS\n\nTo Install the printer, click on Apple logo on the top left and select \"System Settings\" Click on \"Printers & Scanners\" --> \"Add Printer, Scanner, or Fax...\" Right-click (control + click) on the toolbar and select \"Customize Toolbar...\" Now drag \"Advanced\" from the menu to the Toolbar and click Done. Now click on \"Advanced\" Select \"Windows printer via spoolss\" under URL type: smb://cs-sfuprint-p.dc.sfu.ca/SFU_Print_non_AD_auth Name: SFU_Print Location: FollowMe Click on Use and \"Select Software...\" Search for: ricoh mp c60 and select \"RICOH MP C6004ex\" Finally click on Add Now click on your newly installed printer to configure some \"Options & Supplies...\"", "Click on Options on the top and under:\n\nOption Tray: select \"Lower Paper Trays\" (different from \"Lower Paper Tray\") Finisher: \"Finisher SR3210\" And now you are done with printer installation and if your Papercut Client is running, you should be able to print.", "OVERVIEW\n\nAligned with the university\u2019s What\u2019s Next Objective: Transform the SFU experience and SFU's digital transformation , SFU is transitioning from traditional desk phones to Microsoft Teams Phones, a modern, cost-efficient telephony solution. Teams is already in use across the university as a meeting and instant messaging tool. This move is part of SFU\u2019s ongoing efforts to enhance communication infrastructure and better accommodate the evolving faculty and staff needs at the university.", "Timeline:\n\nThe migration to MS Teams Phones will occur in phases to ensure a smooth transition. This change will primarily be automated, but staff will be provided with training, training resources and IT support to ensure a successful migration to Teams Phone usage. Due to their unique nature, each phase will be individually planned and executed. Following is the projected implementation sequence, with initial target dates.", "The major elements of the transition include the following:\n\nPlanning and Preparation Telco Vendor Selection and Negotiation Prepare Funding, Support Models Refine and approve implementation approach Implementation / Roll-out", "Implementation will include:\n\nPilot- target Q1/2025 Faculty and Staff, General office lines Classrooms and Meeting Spaces Emergency Phones Special Cases (as necessary) Decommissioning and Clean-up Following these phases, the university will start decommissioning obsolete equipment as part of the upgrade process.", "Note:\n\nThe implementation dates provided are tentative and subject to change.", "Why this change:\n\nTransitioning to Microsoft Teams phones will improve our operational efficiency and collaboration. Some of the benefits include:", "Significant Cost Savings:\n\nBy integrating phones into MS Teams, SFU will reduce its yearly phone expenses.", "Centralized Communications:\n\nOne platform to handle all forms of communications - calls, video conferencing, messaging, and file sharing - eliminates inefficiencies and complexity that comes with using multiple systems.", "Improved Call Management:\n\nWith MS Teams, users can manage their calls seamlessly across multiple devices - whether from a computer, smartphone, or tablet - and from any location, be it the office, home, or while traveling.", "Retention of Existing Phone Numbers:\n\nTo ensure continuity and convenience, all existing numbers will be migrated to the new system, making the transition smooth. To learn more, see the FAQs or explore the How-to-Guides section. Questions? Please contact phones@sfu.ca", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams", "OVERVIEW\n\nGeneral FAQs Common Issues after Migration", "DETAILS\n\nGeneral FAQs", "WHAT IS A MICROSOFT TEAMS PHONE?\n\nMicrosoft (MS) Teams Phone allows you to make and receive calls with Teams using your computer/ laptop and mobile phones. Learn more about MS Teams for Calling", "WILL I STILL HAVE MY DESKTOP PHONE?\n\nOnce you transition to Microsoft Teams Phone, you will not need a physical phone.", "ARE COMPUTERS MANDATORY TO USE MS TEAMS PHONES?\n\nMS Teams Phone is typically used with a work computer, but you can make and receive calls even with your smartphones and tablets How does voicemail work? MS Teams Voicemail allows users to receive voice messages directly within the Microsoft Application. Learn more about MS Teams Voicemail", "CAN USERS CUSTOMIZE THEIR OUTGOING MESSAGES?\n\nUsers can customize their voicemail under the MS Teams Voicemail Settings. Learn more on how to manage your voicemail settings", "HERE\n\n.", "CAN VOICEMAILS BE SENT TO EMAIL?\n\nYes, voicemails in Microsoft Teams can also be sent to email. This is part of the unified messaging feature, where voicemail messages are delivered directly to the user's inbox as an audio file attachment. Additionally, transcription can be enabled. Can I make emergency calls? Yes, you can make emergency calls in Microsoft Teams. Do you have to be logged in to Teams to know that someone is calling you? You must be logged into MS Teams to know that someone is calling you, Teams is set to automatically launch on SFU Windows-based computers. If you are logged into MS Teams on your mobile phone or desktop/laptop you will also be able to make and receive calls Why are we doing this and why now? The project aims to modernize our telephony system, communication infrastructure, save costs and better accommodate the evolving faculty and staff needs at the university. What is the value/benefits we\u2019re hoping to bring to our community? The integration into MS Teams consolidates our communication tools into a single platform and provides seamless call management across devices and locations. do i have to give up my existing phone number? No, you can retain your existing phone number. Would the user need training to use these phones? IT will provide training and support to ensure a smooth transition. Learn more about MS Teams for Calling here . Will there be disruption to work/teaching Environments? The implementation will occur in phases to ensure minimum disruption. SFU IT will handle the transition for SFU-managed devices. Detailed instructions will be provided for unmanaged devices. Is this optional? Can users opt out? Migration from the existing system to the MS Teams Phone is expected for the phone lines specified within the project\u2019s scope. What are the timelines for this project? The migration to", "CAN VOICEMAILS BE SENT TO EMAIL?\n\ntransition for SFU-managed devices. Detailed instructions will be provided for unmanaged devices. Is this optional? Can users opt out? Migration from the existing system to the MS Teams Phone is expected for the phone lines specified within the project\u2019s scope. What are the timelines for this project? The migration to MS Teams Phones will occur in phases to ensure a smooth transition. This change will primarily be automatic, but staff will be provided with training, training resources and IT support to ensure a successful migration to Teams Phone usage.", "The major elements of the transition include the following:\n\nPlanning and Preparation Telco Vendor Selection and Negotiation Prepare Funding, Support Models Refine and approve implementation approach Implementation / Roll-out", "Implementation will include:\n\nPilot- target Q1/2025 Faculty and Staff, General office lines Classrooms and Meeting Spaces Emergency Phones Special Cases (as necessary) Decommissioning and Clean-up Following these phases, the university will start decommissioning obsolete equipment as part of the upgrade process.", "Note:\n\nThe implementation dates provided are tentative and subject to change. Refer to the Teams Phone for Calling Page What is my role during the transition? This change will be automatic, requiring no action from you. IT support will be available throughout the transition. What Are the cost savings of this project? This initiative is expected to reduce annual phone expenses. Details on the new funding model are forthcoming. Will i have the same functionality as my current analog phone line? Yes, although it may be provided in a different manner with the MS Teams Phone Common Issues After Migration", "I STILL DON'T SEE THE DIAL PAD ON MY TEAMS APP\n\nIf you have been migrated to Teams Phone, and the dial pad is missing on your desktop or mobile device, try restarting your device. If this doesn't work, please contact IT to ensure your account has the correct license assigned and you have been enabled for MS Teams Phone. unable to hear the caller/ the caller is unable to hear me If you're having trouble hearing others in your Teams calls and meetings, the problem is either with your speaker not working, or with their microphone. If you\u2019re the only one who can\u2019t hear them, there might be an issue with your speaker. See HERE for Tips for Checking your speaker settings in Teams what is my phone number? Open the Microsoft Teams desktop application. Select the Calls tab from the app bar on the left-hand side of the user interface. If a Teams phone number has been assigned to you it will be displayed underneath the dialer, as illustrated in the screenshot below. How To forward calls? See HERE For Call Transfer Options How to check voicemail? See HERE for Voicemail How to change my voicemail password? MS Teams Phone is associated with your Microsoft Account. If you need to change your Microsoft Account, your Teams Phone account password also changes. See HERE for Now to change your Microsoft Account Password How to make calls using my mobile device? See HERE for Teams for Mobile Questions? Please contact phones@sfu.ca", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article lists the how-to guides, training and resources on MS Teams for Calling", "DETAILS\n\nList of How-To Guides Making a call using Teams Managing a call Placing a call on Hold Transferring a Call See call history Accessing Voicemail Call Settings Call Answering Rules Manage Delegates Using Teams for Calling on the a Mobile device Manage call settings in Teams Phone Mobile How do I (quick videos)? Learn about what is MS Teams? Get started with MS Teams Using Teams for Calling", "QRG\n\nTeams QS for Calling More Microsoft Help Links The link below provides more great tutorials and quick videos on MS Teams from Microsoft. Get started with Microsoft Team Training Get Started with Microsoft Teams Phone Questions? Please contact phones@sfu.ca", "SFU is upgrading its phone system to Microsoft Teams for calling. This change brings several improvements over the current phone system, including enhanced collaboration features, better internal communication options, ease of use and improved voicemail capabilities. The new system will allow users to make calls, check voicemail and collaborate more effectively whether they're in the office or working remotely. Explore the key features and benefits of the new Microsoft Teams phone system below. If you have any further questions or need assistance, feel free to contact phones@sfu.ca", "Feature Compare:\n\nMicrosoft Teams Phones SFU Current Phones Collaboration Platform Microsoft Teams empowers remote users to collaborate effectively. Teams provides a unified platform for chat, video calls, and document sharing. Limited to the ability to make and receive calls. Internal Communication Ability to Chat and Video Calls: Teams offers chat-based communication, video calls, and document sharing. Limited to audio calls only Ease of Use Whether you\u2019re in the office or working remotely, Teams ensures you can continue to make calls, receive calls and check voicemail from anywhere regardless of your physical location. Need to be in the office to make and receive calls and check voicemail Voicemail Voicemail is provided at no cost and is automatically transcribed and sent to your email as an MP3 attachment. Currently Voicemail is an extra charge. Mobile With Teams on your mobile device, you\u2019re not tied to your desk and can take calls on the go. Need to forward calls to Cell Phone Using Microsoft Teams Phone Make and Answer Calls Make one-on-one or group calls directly from a chat or use the dial pad to call a phone number. Click to Learn More Access your voicemail Access, listen to, and review your voicemails using playback controls, voicemail summary, and transcripts. Click to Learn More Using Teams Dial Pad to making a call Using Teams to check Voicemail", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThe Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) provides definitions for the different classifications of events. This article discusses how the standard ITIL and classifications work within the TeamDynamix system.", "DETAILS\n\nITIL Classification Definitions", "Note:\n\nThese various classifications can be renamed and switch-on or turn-off as necessary. Classification is in Red and highlighted in yellow , has been switched-on within SFU ServiceHub, as of June 24, 2024 Service Request \u2013 A request from a user for information, advice, a standard change or access to an IT service. For example, to reset a password, or to provide standard IT services for a new user. Service requests are usually handled by a service desk, and do not require a Request for Change (RFC) to be to be submitted. Incident \u2013 An unplanned interruption to an IT service or a reduction in the quality of an IT service. Failure of a configuration item that has not yet impacted one or more services is also an incident. For example, the failure of one disk from a mirror set. Major Incident \u2013 [Not switched-on yet] An event which significantly affects a business or organization, and which demands a response beyond the routine incident management process. A major incident is an incident that is either defined in the major incident procedure or which: Affects, or has the potential to affect services or systems that are critical to the business Has a significant effect on the reputation, legal compliance, regulation or security of the business/organization. Problem \u2013 [Not switched-on yet] The cause of one or more incidents. The cause is not usually known when a problem record is created, and the problem management process is responsible for further investigation. Change \u2013 The addition, modification or removal of anything that could affect IT services. This includes all IT services, configuration items, processes, documentation, etc. Release \u2013 [Not switched-on yet] A collection of hardware or software documentation, processes or other components required to implement one or more approved changes to IT services. The contents", "Note:\n\naddition, modification or removal of anything that could affect IT services. This includes all IT services, configuration items, processes, documentation, etc. Release \u2013 [Not switched-on yet] A collection of hardware or software documentation, processes or other components required to implement one or more approved changes to IT services. The contents of each release are managed, tested, and deployed as a single entity.\u200b Use in TeamDynamix Let\u2019s look at a hypothetical use case that covers most of these definitions: There are fifty incidents of WiFi being interrupted. Those incidents are then rolled up into a single problem ticket about the lack of suitable WiFi infrastructure. A change ticket could then be opened and the WiFi infrastructure can be changed or upgraded to be more resilient and reliable. A release ticket could then be created, and the institution could release new documentation and justification for the upgrade in WiFi infrastructure. The institution could release the communication or news that the new WiFi infrastructure should be more consistent, and that there is no cause for concern. In the below illustration, the interior blue sections of the pyramid show the hierarchy of what can be used as parent or child tickets in TeamDynamix.", "A\n\nparent ticket can contain any of the child classifications below it. This means, for example, that a release can contain any problems, without a change between them in the hierarchy. When a parent ticket (for example, a release) is updated, a technician can elect to update or close all the child tickets (for example, changes, problems, major incidents, and incidents or service requests) that are nestled within it. When a ticket is converted to a project task, any existing parent linkage is removed, but children tickets will remain. However, updates made to the ticket based on the corresponding project task's status will not be cascaded to its children. Lastly, per the outer edges of the diagram, any classification of a ticket may have a service knowledge article, asset or configuration item associated with it.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management How-To Guides", "Exchange Distribution Groups (EDGs, or distribution groups) is a feature of Microsoft Exchange (SFU's email system) that allows a user to send messages to a list of SFU email addresses, or to members of other SFU Groups, all at once. The group manager(s) can add or remove SFU email addresses (known as 'members' of the group) as needed. Instead of adding multiple email addresses on the To/CC/BCC field, EDGs enable you to use a single email address when sending messages to a group.", "To:\n\nperson1@sfu.ca; person2@sfu.ca; person3@sfu.ca", "To:\n\nmy-distribution-group@sfu.ca", "REMINDER\n\nExchange Distribution Group can only contain SFU members. If you require email distribution to non-SFU email recipients, such as Gmail email addresses, please see here for your options. Alternatively, you may also CC/BCC any non-SFU email recipients if you wish to use an Exchange Distribution Group. Note that University policy Acceptable Use and Security of Digital Information and Electronic Systems (GP 24) governs the use of all computing systems at SFU, including Exchange Distribution Groups. Exchange Distribution Groups are intended to be used in support of scholarly or work-related activity in accordance with this policy.", "TYPES OF DISTRIBUTION GROUPS\n\nStandard Group A distribution group that contains SFU email addresses or other SFU Groups. These are general purpose email distribution groups. Video (5 min) Course Group A group that is automatically populated with the course roster for a course and section. Course groups always reflect the roster for the current term. These are often used by instructors or teaching assistants to send emails to their student rosters (i.e., psyc102-d100@sfu.ca). When requested and created, sender restrictions are automatically set to the instructor. TAs will need to be manually added. Video (7 min) Academic Plan A group that is automatically kept up-to-date with the membership of one or more Academic Plans. Academic Plan group always reflect the Plan membership for the current term. These are often used by administrative staff to send emails to various cohorts of students. Sender restriction is always enabled for these groups. Video (2 min) Who can Request? All requests for Exchange Distribution Group are reviewed and will be created within one business day once approved by IT Services.", "STAFF AND FACULTY\n\nMay request Standard Groups for instructional, administrative or research-related purposes. May request", "C\n\nourse Groups or Academic Plan Groups which automatically contains the registered students in a course or academic plan. STUDENTS May request Standard Groups that are related to course work, SFSS-recognised clubs, or student unions. New groups requested by students will only be approved if they clearly relate to course work, a SFSS-recognised club, or a student union. The course name/number (e.g. engl100 -- both department and number) or club name/acronym must appear in the group name, and the description should clearly indicate the purpose of the group.", "Examples of appropriate names and descriptions for student-run groups:\n\nengl100-mygroup Study group for ENGL100 -- Rudyard Kipling group myclub-exec SFSS Club myclub Executives contact maillist How to Request", "STEP 1\n\nBefore requesting a group, determine your group name and description beforehand. Here are guidelines on appropriate group naming: Group Name", "Your group name must meet all of the following:\n\nClearly represent the purpose of the group Contain at least one hyphen (-) character, but not start or end with it Contain only letters, numbers, hyphens (no spaces and no other special characters) Be no more than 140 characters Can not conflict with any other SFU email address Description You must provide a short, clear description of the purpose of this group.", "INAPPROPRIATE NAMES\n\nSFU reserves the right to reject distribution group requests where the name of the group does not meet appropriate naming criteria; this includes, but is not limited to, group names that: are too general or non-specific attempt to masquerade as some other entity in the system are silly, frivolous or appear to have no relationship to any university activity contain profanity", "conflict with the automatically populated \"course group\" naming patterns:\n\nDEPT-# (eg. phil-100) DEPT#-SECTION (eg. psyc102-d100) DEPT-#-SECTION (eg. cmpt-165-c100)", "STEP 2\n\nGo to groups.sfu.ca and select Request an Exchange Distribution Group", ", or visit the request form:\n\nRequest New EDG", "STEP 3\n\nOn the request form , choose the type of group you would like to request. Note that the option to request Course and Academic Plan groups may not be available to you, depending on your role at SFU. Continue by following the instructions on the request form.", "STEP 4\n\nOnce submitted, Exchange Distribution Group (EDG) requests are manually reviewed by SFU IT staff to ensure compliance with SFU policies. We aim to act on requests within one business day . You will be notified by email when your group has been activated. Once activated, your EDG's email address is my-distribution-group@sfu.ca. In the meantime, you can visit your group on groups.sfu.ca and make changes to the membership and other settings. If you made any changes to your EDG, you will need to wait an additional 30 minutes for the changes to fully sync to Microsoft servers.", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (2) Email Distribution Lists Tools that provides the ability to send email messages to multiple email addresses using a list or a group. Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Operational and communication sites intended for all faculty and staff (university-wide) will not be provisioned at this time. This decision is part of the SFU Communications & Marketing effort to strategically develop intranet-related content in the future.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article lists the how-to guides, training and resources for SharePoint Online. SharePoint Online - How-To Guides ( current page ) SharePoint Online - FAQs How-To Guides", "DID YOU KNOW?\n\nMS Teams have an associated SharePoint Online site that can be used for more than just document management. To learn more, visit our FAQs .", "SHAREPOINT ONLINE BASICS\n\nNote: To simplify the experience of a general user on SharePoint at SFU, some features demo'd in the video are unavailable, including Site Creation, Global Navigation and Frequent Sites. Getting Started with SharePoint Online (Video: 35 min) Quick Start: What is SharePoint? (Video: 1 min) Quick Start: SharePoint Online Cheat Sheet Collaboration on SharePoint Using a Document Library", "SITE BUILDING\n\nCreate a list (Video: 2 min) Create a document library Create and share files in a library (Video: 2 min) Create and share news posts (Video: 2 min) Create and use modern pages (Video 2 min) Add sections and columns on pages Using web parts on pages (Video: 1 min)", "PERSONALIZING YOUR SITE\n\nCreating your SharePoint site - Walkthrough Plan your SharePoint site - Designing Best Practices, Tips and Tricks Build your SharePoint site - Designing Best Practices, Tips and Tricks Manage your SharePoint site - Designing Best Practices, Tips and Tricks SFU Communicator's Toolkit - Branding and Writing Guide", "COMPLIANCE AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT\n\nFile Lifecycle Management in OneDrive - Best Practices for Records Management File Lifecycle Management in MS Teams - Best Practices for Records Management File Lifecycle Management in SharePoint - Best Practices for Records Management ( coming soon ) Sensitivity labels on SFU's Microsoft Environment ( coming soon ) Enable and configure versioning for a list or library Require approval of items in a list or library", "USING MICROSOFT TOOLS AT SFU\n\nChoosing a Document and Content Management Tool at SFU - Comparison Chart How SharePoint sites are used at SFU - Supported and Unsupported Use-cases", "SITE OWNERSHIP\n\nSite Owner Responsibilities for MS Teams (applicable to SharePoint site owners) Request a SharePoint Site", "SITE MANAGEMENT (ACCESS, FILE RECOVERY, DATA USAGE)\n\nFind my Site Owner ( coming soon ) Add or remove site owners, members or visitors Adding automation to access management using SFU Groups Restore items in the recycle bin for SharePoint and Teams sites (Video: 1 min) Delete a document library Restore a document library View usage data for your SharePoint site", "ADDITIONAL MICROSOFT RESOURCES\n\nSharePoint help & learning Documents and libraries in SharePoint Data and lists in SharePoint Sharing and permissions in SharePoint Pages in SharePoint Sites in SharePoint Differences between SharePoint 2019 and SharePoint Online SharePoint 2019 - Migration Information SharePoint 2019 - Self Migration Guide on Files & Documents SharePoint 2019 - Self Migration Guide on Lists", "For General Users:\n\nReach out to your site owner if you need general support, including access/permissions troubleshooting.", "For Site Owners:\n\nSite owners seeking technical support can request a support ticket using SharePoint - Ask a Question .", "Operational and communication sites intended for all faculty and staff (university-wide) will not be provisioned at this time. This decision is part of the SFU Communications & Marketing effort to strategically develop intranet-related content in the future.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article lists the frequently asked questions for SharePoint Online. SharePoint Online - How-To Guides SharePoint Online - FAQs ( current page ) General FAQs What are the features and benefits on SharePoint Online? SharePoint Online offers a secure place to store, organize, share and access internal content. Such content can be internal documents, images, videos, lists, links and web pages (ie. information or news). This tool is designed to increase efficiency, improve communication and protect sensitive information. New to SharePoint? Visit Quick Start: What is SharePoint? (Video: 1 min) See How SharePoint sites are used at SFU - Supported and Unsupported Use-cases What is the difference between Teams Sites and SharePoint Sites? SharePoint Online is a file management application that is also the underlying technology operating on many of Microsoft's products, including OneDrive and", "MS\n\nTeams . You may find these instances when exploring SharePoint Online at SFU at https://1sfu.sharepoint.com/ or using SFU's OneDrive weblink at https://1sfu-my.sharepoint.com/ to access your OneDrive. On Microsoft Teams, whenever a new team is created, an underlying SharePoint \"Team Site\" is created to facilitate the file management component on Teams. Teams Sites SharePoint Sites Microsoft product Microsoft Teams SharePoint Online Underlying technology SharePoint Online (channel/team file management) SharePoint Online Purpose Collaboration, document and/or project management Internal websites to publish web content and documents Audience SFU units, departments, project and collaboration teams Broader SFU audience (ie. university-wide) Type of content Document, list and process-heavy Page-heavy Permissions Model Lots of authors, few readers Lots of readers, few authors Default external sharing Enabled Disabled Productivity tools Yes No URL / Link https://1sfu.sharepoint.com / teams /<Team Name> https://1sfu.sharepoint.com / sites /<Site Name> Looking for more details? See Choosing a Document and Content Management Tool at SFU - Comparison Chart . What is the storage limit for SharePoint Online Sites? The storage limit for a SharePoint Online site is 100 GB. Access and Sharing FAQs I can't access my site. How do I gain access? You will need to ask the site owner to give you access to the site or to investigate the issue. SharePoint Online sites hosted on SFU's Microsoft tenant doesn't allow access to external users (non-SFU individuals). Note : IT Services can assist with identifying who is the site owner. I can't access a document shared to me. What should I do? You will need to ask the site owner to investigate the issue. Note : IT Services can assist with identifying who is the site owner of the site that hosts your file. My document is missing. How do I recover it? For instructions to recover an accidentally deleted item,", "MS\n\ndo? You will need to ask the site owner to investigate the issue. Note : IT Services can assist with identifying who is the site owner of the site that hosts your file. My document is missing. How do I recover it? For instructions to recover an accidentally deleted item, visit Restore items in the recycle bin for SharePoint and Teams sites (Video: 1 min) . You may need to ask the site owner to recover the document for you if you don't have sufficient permissions. Privacy and Compliance FAQs What is a sensitivity label? A sensitivity label is a classification method that implements defined boundaries on sharing permissions. The SFU community can apply these labels to files and documents to protect SFU content and data. How do sensitivity labels affect my document / file? Details coming soon. Are there FIPPA considerations for SharePoint Online? SFU's Microsoft environment, that includes SharePoint Online, has its data hosted on Microsoft's Canadian servers. Information stored on SFU's SharePoint Online are compliant with", "FIPPA\n\n. Migration FAQs What is happening to sharepoint 2019? In alignment with What\u2019s Next: The SFU Strategy and SFU\u2019s digital transformation goals , SFU IT Services is strengthening cybersecurity and protecting our research, academic and business data. As part of these changes, SharePoint 2019 (sharepoint.sfu.ca) will be retired by July 2026 . This service will be replaced by Microsoft Teams and SharePoint Online. For more details, visit SharePoint 2019 - Migration Information . Who is affected and needs to take action? Site owners will need to take action if they have content on sites or subsites in SharePoint 2019. All site content should be migrated before SharePoint 2019 is retired on July 2026 . For more details, visit SharePoint 2019 - Migration Information . How do I know if my content is on SharePoint 2019? Site owners will receive an email from the SharePoint team (IT Services) with an attached Content Inventory Spreadsheet file. This spreadsheet will list all the owner's sites and subsites that are on SharePoint 2019. Furthermore, if the weblink starts with https://sharepoint.sfu.ca, your content is on SharePoint 2019 and will need to be migrated. If the weblink starts with https://1sfu.sharepoint.com, your content is on SharePoint Online and does not need to be migrated. When do I have to migrate out of Sharepoint 2019? Between November 2024 and January 2025 , site owners will receive an email from the SharePoint team (IT Services). Site owners should move active content to another service when available. All content should be migrated before July 2026 . For more details, visit SharePoint 2019 - Migration Information . What are the differences between SharePoint 2019 and SharePoint Online? Overall, there is a significant change to the user experience (modernized theme, new UI, SFU colours, etc.). Functionally speaking, there are minor differences. For", "FIPPA\n\nbe migrated before July 2026 . For more details, visit SharePoint 2019 - Migration Information . What are the differences between SharePoint 2019 and SharePoint Online? Overall, there is a significant change to the user experience (modernized theme, new UI, SFU colours, etc.). Functionally speaking, there are minor differences. For a complete list, visit Differences between SharePoint 2019 and SharePoint Online . What can't be migrated by IT services? Any content or settings that aren't migrated by IT Services will need to be manually replicated by site owners. This includes: Site access permissions File or folder shared permissions Workflows OneNote items Some page webparts, layouts and styling Pages, including Wiki pages", "The following aspects of Lists:\n\nAttachments Views using Javascript and webparts", "The following metadata:\n\nContent types Author/Modified by for users that no longer exist Picture and video metadata from asset and classic media libraries What are the important migration considerations? Ensure that your destination SharePoint Online site has enough free storage to accommodate the migrated content (storage size limit is 100GB) Go to: Site settings > Storage Metrics Documents or List items shouldn\u2019t be migrated to existing destination Document Libraries or Lists if the site columns are different The URL character limit of 400 should be considered when deciding on the file name length and folder path depth Need additional support?", "For General Users:\n\nReach out to your site owner if you need general support, including access/permissions troubleshooting.", "For Site Owners:\n\nSite owners seeking technical support can request a support ticket using SharePoint - Ask a Question .", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines various document and content management tools available at SFU and a comparison between the different tools. This page contains: Microsoft Tools at SFU Other Tools at SFU Research Storage Tools at SFU", "For more SharePoint Online resources:\n\nSharePoint Online - How-To Guides SharePoint Online - FAQs Microsoft Tools at SFU Microsoft OneDrive (OneDrive) is a cloud file storage service for individual use at SFU. It allows you to securely store, share, and synchronize your files and folders from any device anywhere at any time. Ideal For Individual document management Early document drafting at small scale Sharing and collaboration with select individuals Not Ideal For Documents that shouldn't be owned by an individual Official records not meant for individual use", "Available To:\n\nAll active SFU accounts", "Complexity:\n\nBasic Teams Microsoft Teams (Teams) is a collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 apps and services (such as Word, Excel, and OneDrive) with communications features to keep you connected with others. Ideal For Shared space for document management Co-authoring documents Collaborative, productivity and project management needs Not Ideal For Archival documents", "Available To:\n\nCurrent staff, faculty and graduate students", "Complexity:\n\nIntermediate (for Team Owners)", "FOR TEACHING AND LEARNING\n\nMicrosoft Teams is currently unavailable for class facilitating and undergraduate student-use. We encourage you to explore with using . Microsoft SharePoint (SharePoint) provides an online environment where SFU departments and groups can share information with a wider internal audience. Ideal For Internal-facing website Page-heavy content Organize and publish documents Not Ideal For Content that requires viewing by any non-SFU individuals.", "Available To:\n\nCurrent staff and faculty (for new site requests)", "Complexity:\n\nAdvanced (for Site Owners); Training Required for Site Owners", "BACKUP AND DATA RESILIENCY\n\nMicrosoft Teams , and provides accident prevention features such as soft-deletes (Recycling Bin), file versioning, and site restoration to help address potential file corruption, unintended changes, or deletions. To ensure efficient use of resourcing, neither Microsoft nor SFU provide indefinite backups to user data stored on Microsoft 365 services. You are responsible for backing up your content if you require additional or a high-degree of data resiliency. It is generally not advisable to use Microsoft tools as long-term storage solutions.", "NEED CONSULTATION?\n\nIf you're unsure on which Microsoft tool to use, IT Services offers consultation services to assist you with determining which Microsoft tool best suites your needs. Request a support ticket using SharePoint - Ask a Question . Other Tools at SFU SFU Vault SFU Vault provides easy file sharing between teams or individual users to assist in the various projects undertaken by university members and to foster collaboration from external access points. Similar to , you only need internet connectivity to manage files in the cloud storage system. Ideal For Sensitive data that require storing at SFU servers Sharing and access control using SFU Maillist WebDAV connections Custom work flows and linkages with systems, such as testing instruments and lab equipment", "Available To:\n\nCurrent staff and faculty (for new site requests)", "Complexity:\n\nBasic SFU Vault is planned to be sunsetted and retired . We encourage you to explore or Teams as your document storage solution. Adobe Experience Manager", "(AEM)\n\nis SFU's official content management system for website development. It is a publishing platform that enables you to create public-facing websites that are aligned with SFU branding. Ideal For Public-facing website Page-heavy content", "Available To:\n\nThose with a business need (for new site requests)", "Storage:\n\nVaries", "Complexity:\n\nAdvanced (for Site Owners); Training Required for Site Owners is SFU\u2019s online learning platform for creating, sharing and managing your course materials. Ideal For Content for teaching and learning Sharing content to students", "Available To:\n\nCurrent staff, faculty and students", "Complexity:\n\nIntermediate Network Drive Shared or Network Drive (also known as a \u201cDepartment Drive\u201d or Y-Drive) is a file storage space on the SFU campus network. Network drives act just like a disk drive on your computer (e.g., the C:/ drive) but can be shared between many people. Ideal For Need for high performance access, such as databases and media files Custom work flows and linkages with systems, such as testing instruments and lab equipment Live file access (local access to files)", "Available To:\n\nSelect departments and units (Contact your department IT support staff for availability.)", "Storage:\n\nVaries", "Complexity:\n\nVaries Research Storage Tools at SFU The appropriate tool for researchers depends on funding requirement, research artifacts, activities, document retention, and research product. Usually when receiving funding, tool usage and document locations are pre-determined via research funding contract. If you have options, consider exploring the SFU Research Computing Storage Advisor to determine which tool best suit your needs. This interactive finder describes active data storage options available to researchers and teams at Simon Fraser University. Visit storage.research.sfu.ca", "NOTE\n\nThe descriptions of data sensitivity and risk provided in the interactive finder are meant as guidance only. For projects that require Ethics review you can provide your own assessment of sensitivity and risk, but the SFU Research Ethics Board is ultimately responsible for evaluating these.", "Hardware Lifecycle Services Asset Management Standard Device Acquisition", "OVERVIEW\n\nSFU students, faculty and staff have access to educational discounts on computers, computer accessories and software with major vendors.", "DETAILS\n\nStudents, Faculty and Staff Find out about available items and discounted pricing from each vendor below.", "NOTE\n\n: Concerns about recent changes to Dell's discount program has caused IT Services to remove our partner link. We are working with Dell to address these concerns in order to restore our recommendation.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nIn alignment with What\u2019s Next: The SFU Strategy and SFU\u2019s digital transformation goals , SFU IT Services is strengthening cybersecurity and protecting our research, academic and business data. As part of these changes, SFU Maillist will be retired on April 30, 2025. The service will be replaced by Group Management (SFU Groups) , External Mail Lists (SimpleLists) , and Marketing and Event Management Service (Campaigner) .", "This article includes:\n\nChanges starting Spring 2025 What's Changing? What actions do I need to take? Migrating Any Remaining Maillists Maillist for Email Distribution Maillist for Security", "WHAT'S HAPPENING?\n\nSFU Maillist have been retired since April 30, 2025 and maillist.sfu.ca can no longer be accessed. If you need read-only access , you can visit the Maillist Staging/Test Environment to view your maillists (any modifications will have no impact). Any remaining maillists can no longer be used for emailing and its name is available on Exchange Distribution Groups for creation. To re-create your maillists as Exchange Distribution Groups, send a request on SFU Groups. Any remaining maillists used for security (access control lists) will continue to function on downstream systems to not interrupt business operations. However, they will eventually become stale since maillists can no longer be modified. All active maillist used for email distribution have been automatically migrated between December 2024 to April 2025. IT Services have reached out to maillist owners and managers for next steps to migrate. You may or may not need to take action depending on how you use your maillist. For technical users: the Maillist API will be shut down along with the retirement. However, the AOBRest (with a maillist endpoint) will continue running.", "WHEN IS THE MIGRATION?\n\nAdministrative units will have their active maillist migrated in December 2024. Faculty and academic units will have their active maillist migrated between January to April 2025. Maillist owners and managers will receive an email notification two weeks prior to migration.", "WHO IS AFFECTED?\n\nAnyone who owns or manages a maillist. You may or may not need to take action depending on how you use your maillist. See what actions do I need to take for guidelines. Recipients (members) of a maillist are minimally impacted. Departments or units that have integrated maillists into their business processes and technology may need to adapt. Note : After April 30, 2025, any remaining maillists functioning as security or access controls will continue to not interrupt business operations. However, SFU Maillist will no longer be accessible and membership can no longer be changed. Migrate to SFU Groups to ensure edit access to your group membership is retained.", "MIGRATED TO\n\nInternal-only recipients (only @sfu.ca recipients) Group Management (SFU Groups) Managed at groups.sfu.ca Note: Maillists are now called Exchange Distribution Groups on SFU Groups. This stems from the underlying email system, Microsoft Exchange Online. Visit this page to learn how to request a new Exchange Distribution Group External or blended recipients (internal & external) External Mail Lists (SimpleLists) Managed at lists.sfu.ca Email requiring marketing features (i.e., tracking clicks, HTML-heavy content) Marketing and Event Management Service (Campaigner) What is an internal or External recipient?", "For email distribution:\n\nInternal recipients : Refers to any email address that ends with @sfu.ca. This also includes some safe-listed domains hosted by SFU, including @cs.sfu.ca and @rcg.sfu.ca. External recipients : Generally, refers to any email address that's not SFU. In technical terms, any other recipient that does not meet the \"internal recipient\" requirement. What is the difference between SFU Maillist and SFU Groups (Exchange Distribution Groups)?", "The functional differences are:\n\nRestricted Senders Security : Enabling Restricted Senders on an Exchange Distribution Group will require any sender to authenticate to Exchange. This means that users will need to be signed into an SFU's Approved Email Application in order to send to an Exchange Distribution Group with Restricted Senders. Nesting Permission : To add another Group as a member of your Group, you are required to have Manager or Readers privileges on the Group before you're able to add it as a member to your own Group. No self-subscribe or unsubscribe : You will need to move to and use SimpleList if you require this feature. No external users : You will need to move to and use SimpleList if you require sending emails to external (non-SFU) email addresses. To see the full list of changes, visit Differences between SFU Groups and SFU Maillist . Note : These are functional differences between SFU Maillist and SFU Groups. For impacts or changes to your maillist resulting from migration, see What actions do I need to take? .", "MIGRATED TO\n\nLists used for security only Group Management (SFU Groups) Managed at groups.sfu.ca (or grouper.its.sfu.ca for technical staff) Visit this page to learn how to request a new Security Group Lists used for both security and email distribution Group Management (SFU Groups) Will be split into two separate groups : one for security and one for emailing Managed at groups.sfu.ca (or grouper.its.sfu.ca for technical staff) Want to know how SFU Maillist compares to SFU Groups? See Differences between SFU Groups and SFU Maillist .", "MIGRATING ANY REMAINING MAILLISTS\n\nBefore SFU Maillist is retired on April 30, 2025, we recommend checking if you have any remaining maillists that need to be migrated. For maillist managers", "and owners:\n\nVisit maillist.sfu.ca > Find maillists owned/managed by me On another browser tab or window, visit groups.sfu.ca > Manage your Groups Compare the two list of maillists/groups and ask yourself: Are the maillists that are important to me have already migrated to SFU Groups? If you discover that some maillists have not been migrated, please take the following action before April 30, 2025. If the maillist is used for emailing", ":\n\nRequest a new Exchange Distribution Group on SFU Groups as a replacement, or Request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry if you wish to migrate the existing maillist. If the maillist is used for security (access to an application, service or resource)", ":\n\nContact your departmental IT staff for assistance. The process will vary depending on the application, service or resource.", "MAILLIST FOR EMAIL DISTRIBUTION\n\nFrom December 2024 to April 2025, Active maillists will be automatically migrated to SFU Groups as Exchange Distribution Groups and prior to migration will be shown in the Active Maillist Migration List for visibility purposes. You can only see maillists that you own. Technical staff members will have additional features and visibility for troubleshooting purposes. Maillist names and email addresses will remain the same if migrated in this manner. Once a maillist is migrated, it will become read-only on maillist.sfu.ca . To manage your groups, you'll need to use groups.sfu.ca . For maillist managers", "and owners:\n\nView the list of maillists planned for migration shown in the Active Maillist Migration List to ensure its accuracy. If you need to transfer ownership of a maillist (i.e., it's owned by someone who is no longer at the university or expired sponsored account), request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . You will be notified by email two weeks prior to the migration. We strongly recommend going through the questions below if they are related to your work.", "WHAT IS AN ACTIVE MAILLIST?\n\nOnly active maillists will be automatically migrated. This means that if the maillist was used for email delivery since July 2022 , it is considered active and will be migrated for email distribution to Exchange Distribution Groups on SFU Groups. If you own active maillists, they should appear on the Active Maillist Migration List which means that they'll be automatically migrated to SFU Groups as Exchange Distribution Groups. Note : Maillists that are only used for security won't appear on the Active Maillist Migration List since they're not used for email delivery. See Maillist for Security below. Can I migrate an inactive maillist? Yes, any maillist that hasn't been used for email delivery since July 2022 can still be migrated for the purposes of email distribution. Simply send an email to the maillist and it will appear in the Active Maillist Migration List the following day. For assistance, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry .", "WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO NESTED MAILLISTS?\n\nMaillist nesting refers to adding a maillist as a recipient (or member) of another maillist. Since the permissions model is different in SFU Groups, if you are an owner of a maillist with a nested maillist, you will now require Reader or Manager privileges to that nested maillist when maillists are migrated over as Exchange Distribution Groups.", "Example:\n\ndept-managers-all unit-a-managers (nested maillist) unit-b-managers (nested maillist) jane_doe@sfu.ca (owner) john_doe@sfu.ca (member) In this example, Jane Doe is an owner of dept -managers-all . Jane Doe now requires Reader or Manager privileges for unit-a-managers and unit-b-managers in SFU Groups.", "WHAT DO I NEED TO DO - NESTED MAILLIST WITHIN DEPARTMENT\n\nIf you also happen to be the owner of that nested maillist, you don't need to take additional action. If the nested maillist is not owned or managed by you, you should get manager role for that maillist prior to migration for a seamless transition to SFU Groups. Be sure to check on the Active Maillist Migration List to see if you have any maillists that have \"nested non-owned lists\". Contact the maillist owners of those \"nested non-owned lists\" for manager role to those nested maillists.", "WHAT DO I NEED TO DO - NESTED MAILLIST CROSS DEPARTMENT\n\nIf the nested maillist is owned by someone from another department, you should get manager role for that maillist prior to migration for a seamless transition to SFU Groups. Be sure to check on the Active Maillist Migration List to see if you have any maillists that have \"nested non-owned lists\". Contact the maillist owners of those \"nested non-owned lists\" for manager role to those nested maillists. Nested maillist from another department where they haven't been migrated yet: Your nested maillist will be automatically removed from the membership list. Once removed from the membership list, you will need to wait until the other department has also migrated. If you followed the steps above prior to migration, you should have manager role to the remove nested maillist. Simply re-add the nested maillist on SFU Groups.", "Nested maillist from another department where they already migrated:\n\nIf you followed the steps above prior to migration, you should have the correct privileges to the nested maillist on SFU Groups. You don't need to take additional action.", "WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO MAILLIST WITH RESTRICTED SENDERS?\n\nThis refers to maillists that has the setting, \"Restrict Sender\" or \"Allow list\", enabled. After migrating these maillists to Exchange Distribution Groups, this setting will be turned off by default and allowing any SFU member to send email to the group. If you wish to restrict sending ability to specific individuals or groups, you will need to apply this setting on SFU Groups. Note the additional security requirements: Users will need to be signed into an SFU's Approved Email Application in order to send emails to an Exchange Distribution Group with Restricted Senders. This can have technical implications to automated emailing systems. For technical details, see Differences between SFU Groups and SFU Maillist . Note : Only course/plan groups are exceptions to this and will have their Restricted Sender setting migrated. What will happen to course or academic plan lists? Course and academic plan lists will be migrated along with its department. This will happen between January to April 2025. what will happen to maillists with external recipients? SFU Maillist can no longer send email to external addresses since Summer 2024. If you own an active maillist that contain external recipients, it will still be automatically migrated to SFU Groups and shown in the Active Maillist Migration List . However, any external recipients on maillists will be automatically removed upon migration to SFU Groups. To continue sending emails to external users, switch to SimpleList or Campaigner . Alternatively, you can 'cc' any external recipients when using Exchange Distribution Group (SFU Groups). SimpleLists does support importing membership to make setup a bit easier. If migrated to SimpleLists, maillist names and email addresses will be different where @sfu.ca will become @lists.sfu.ca . Campaigner facilitates various marketing features and allows for one-way messaging only: from you to the members. For maillists that are", "WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO MAILLIST WITH RESTRICTED SENDERS?\n\nGroups). SimpleLists does support importing membership to make setup a bit easier. If migrated to SimpleLists, maillist names and email addresses will be different where @sfu.ca will become @lists.sfu.ca . Campaigner facilitates various marketing features and allows for one-way messaging only: from you to the members. For maillists that are used for email campaigning, you may want to migrate to Campaigner. What accounts are not migrated to SFU Groups? The following will be removed from your membership list when migrated to SFU Groups: External emails Expired, inactive or destroyed SFU accounts (e.g., expired sponsored accounts, accounts of those who no longer at the university) Nested maillists from another department (only in cases where that department hasn't been migrated yet, and your department is/being migrated) Will owner and manager role be migrated? Yes, user privileges will be migrated. However, since SFU Groups doesn't have the concept of ownership, owners will be given manager privileges. This is by design to ensure ownership doesn't become stale.", "For maillist managers and owners:\n\nIf your maillist is only for security purposes (or access control), you will be notified per service basis for next steps. You may be asked to request a security (reference) group from your departmental IT staff . Instructions will be provided when you notified about the service migration to SFU Groups. If you are a service or product owner, where you have integrated maillists into your business processes and technology that IT Services does not manage, you may either need to coordinate with your departmental IT staff to set up your list on Grouper (in which it will be available to you to manage at groups.sfu.ca ) or migrate the list yourself onto Grouper if you are an IT staff before early 2025. What is a security list? Security lists (or access control lists) refers to maillists that are used for security or access control to services or resources. For example, you may have used a maillist to control which members (SFU accounts) have access to a departmental team on Microsoft Teams, access to an AEM website, or access to a shared folder on SFU Vault. How do I know if my maillist is used for security? Unfortunately, there is no definitive way to know if you maillist is currently being used by a service for security purposes or access controls. There may be some hints or indications based on the maillist name, description, or working knowledge from staff members. What happens if I can't Migrate my security lists before Maillist retirement? To ensure a smooth transition, your security maillists will continue to work normally. However, maillists will become read-only and you will no longer be able to edit the membership list. We encourage you to migrate your security maillists to SFU Groups to ensure uninterrupted edit access to your", "For maillist managers and owners:\n\nMaillist retirement? To ensure a smooth transition, your security maillists will continue to work normally. However, maillists will become read-only and you will no longer be able to edit the membership list. We encourage you to migrate your security maillists to SFU Groups to ensure uninterrupted edit access to your security membership groups.", "NEED ADDITIONAL SUPPORT?\n\nFor questions about Group Management or SFU Maillist Retirement, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Articles (1) Service Migrations to SFU Groups (Grouper) SFU Maillist to SFU Groups migration tracking. Related Services / Offerings (2) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU. Maillists SFU Maillist is a web application designed to simplify the management of SFU email addresses. For email lists with External address, use SimpleLists or Campaigner", "Overview Aligned with the university\u2019s What\u2019s Next Objective: Transform the SFU experience and SFU's digital transformation , SFU is upgrading to Exchange Online, a new cloud-based email system. This transition is part of SFU's commitment to enhancing IT security, improving user experience, and enabling modern features provided by Microsoft.", "This article includes information on:\n\nWhat is happening? What is changing? Other impacts to SFU Mail Migration FAQs for Retirees New Changes to SFU Mail Seeking Additional Assistance What is happening? We are moving SFU Mail accounts to a new system called Exchange Online. Your account will be moved between October and mid-December 2024 . The move will happen in stages, so not everyone will be moved at the same time. You will receive further emails about this upgrade in the coming months. We will let you know three weeks before your SFU Mail account is upgraded. What is changing? The changes will depend on how you access your SFU email: SFU Mail on Web Browser (e.g. Chrome, Firefox, Edge) New URL : After the upgrade, access SFU Mail on any device and web browser using the web link, outlook.office.com . Bookmark or save the new link, as the current web link will become outdated. New Sign-In Step : Your email sign-in format will be \"YourComputingID@sfu.ca\" on the Microsoft sign-in page when you are upgraded. Email Programs and Apps (e.g. Outlook Desktop, Apple Mail) on Desktop and Mobile Devices New Requirements : Only eligible email programs and apps can be used with SFU Mail due to new security requirements. Be sure to check if your device meets the minimum system requirements . Any other email programs or apps will be unable to access SFU Mail once your account is moved. Please note Eudora will not work after your account has been upgraded. Switch to SFU Mail on Web Browser", ":\n\nWe recommend that you switch to using SFU Mail on Web Browser as it provides the most seamless experience and is fully supported by IT Services. Configurations After Upgrade : If you wish to continue using an email program, SFU Mail may disconnect from desktop and mobile email applications after the upgrade. To reconnect, remove and re-add your SFU account. Alternatively, use outlook.office.com for continued access on any browser. Seek support from your personal network if needed. Additional Impacts to Email Programs using IMAP and POP (e.g. Thunderbird) New Server Configurations : Consider backing up your emails before your account is upgraded. Post upgrade, you will need to modify your account configuration which can result in lost emails in the process. See IMAP/SMTP Setup for details and seek assistance from your personal network if needed. Other Impacts : Client-sided data, such as email rules, won't be migrated along with your account. See IMAP/SMTP Setup for details on implications. Thunderbird supports IMAP/POP. Eudora does not support Exchange Online.", "REGARDING AVAILABILITY FOR IT SUPPORT\n\nContinuing to use an email program or app will require familiarity with using a computer or mobile device. If you need IT support, we ask that you seek assistance from your personal network, such as friends, family or colleagues. IT Support Desk can only provide technical support on SFU Mail on Web Browser as the university's officially supported email program for retirees. Consider switching to using SFU Mail on Web Browser for a user-friendly experience.", "ARE YOU USING EMAIL FORWARDING?\n\nIf you set up automatic forwarding of your SFU Mail to another email address (like @gmail.com), there should be no impact. Your forwarding settings will stay the same after the upgrade. We recommend that you periodically review your emails throughout the SFU Mail Upgrade to ensure that your emails are going through smoothly. If you believe to be missing emails, double-check your email rules on SFU Mail on Web Browser or send a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. Other Impacts to SFU Mail If you use any of the following on SFU Mail, note the additional impacts: Shared Calendars : This includes departmental or vacation calendars. If you encounter issues after the upgrade, you will need to remove existing shares and ask owners to re-share to continue its use. See Re-sharing a Shared Calendar . Shared Mail Folders : This includes sharing an inbox to another user. If you encounter issues after the upgrade, you will need to re-add the shared mailbox to continue its use. See Re-add a Shared Mail Folder or Mailbox . Third-party Applications / Integrations : If your SFU Mail connects to external third-party applications, only SFU-approved apps will connect to SFU Mail after the upgrade. Learn more . Sponsored Accounts : Your email sign-in format will be \"YourSponsoredAccount@sfu.ca\" on the Microsoft sign-in page when you are upgraded, including when you are using Delegated Login. See Sponsored Account Sign-in Instructions . Email Signatures : Email signature on the browser version of SFU Mail will be lost during the upgrade. You can add it back once the upgrade is complete. For more, visit our FAQ and Common Issues . At a Glance: SFU Mail on Web Browser Prefer another way? An alternative is to set up email forwarding with Inbox Rules", "ARE YOU USING EMAIL FORWARDING?\n\nof SFU Mail will be lost during the upgrade. You can add it back once the upgrade is complete. For more, visit our FAQ and Common Issues . At a Glance: SFU Mail on Web Browser Prefer another way? An alternative is to set up email forwarding with Inbox Rules to send your SFU emails to your personal email address. SFU Mail Migration FAQ (for Retirees) What is the difference between Browser, Email Program/app and IMAP/POP? Below is an explanation on what is a browser, email program/app and IMAP/POP: Shown here is the Chrome web browser. Web Browser A web browser (or Internet browser) is a common program on computers and mobile devices that lets you access the Internet and to various websites, known as the Web. Accessing SFU Mail on Web Browser is very user-friendly and ideal for individuals who aren't familiar with technology. If you recognize any of the symbols below, they are Web Browsers: Shown here is Outlook on a mobile phone (left) and laptop (right). Email Programs and Apps An email program (for computers) or app (for phones and tablets) is specifically used for emailing and is typically more expansive and complicated due to the larger amount of features. These generally need to be downloaded and installed onto your device. Using an Email Program or App can be more convenient and useful; however, it can be more confusing for individuals who aren't familiar with technology. Commonly used Email Programs and Apps are installed on desktop or mobile devices: Outlook, Apple Mail (iCloud), Gmail App. Not to be confused with Outlook Live, Gmail or Yahoo which are email providers. Shown here is IMAP setup configurations on Thunderbird IMAP and POP Some email programs may use an older connection methods known as IMAP and POP. Setting up an", "ARE YOU USING EMAIL FORWARDING?\n\nmobile devices: Outlook, Apple Mail (iCloud), Gmail App. Not to be confused with Outlook Live, Gmail or Yahoo which are email providers. Shown here is IMAP setup configurations on Thunderbird IMAP and POP Some email programs may use an older connection methods known as IMAP and POP. Setting up an email program as IMAP or POP will require entering the server address, port, and other technical information as needed to establish a connection with an email server. IMAP and POP are typically used by technical individuals. Commonly used Email Programs that use IMAP/POP are: Thunderbird, Eudora. How do I access SFU Mail on web Browser? To access SFU Mail on Web Browser, visit Sign into SFU Mail on Web Browser for instructions. I have email Forwarding Set up. Will this be impacted? If you set up email forwarding of your SFU Mail to another email address (like @gmail.com), there should be no impact. Your forwarding rules will stay the same after the upgrade. Please continue to review emails about this so that you know when your SFU Mail account will be upgraded, just in case you encounter any issues. I own a paid subscription to use Microsoft 365. Can I use Outlook for Windows? Yes, if you have your own Microsoft 365 license on Windows, you will be able to use Outlook for Windows to access SFU Mail. Using an email program will require familiarity with using a computer . If you are comfortable, visit Sign into SFU Mail on Desktop for self-help instructions. If you require additional IT assistance with Outlook for Windows, we ask that you seek assistance from your personal network, such as friends, family or colleagues. Retirees who wish to have the most user-friendly experience are recommended to use SFU Mail on Web Browser . IT", "ARE YOU USING EMAIL FORWARDING?\n\nDesktop for self-help instructions. If you require additional IT assistance with Outlook for Windows, we ask that you seek assistance from your personal network, such as friends, family or colleagues. Retirees who wish to have the most user-friendly experience are recommended to use SFU Mail on Web Browser . IT Support Desk can only provide technical support on SFU Mail on Web Browser as the university's officially supported email program for retirees. I want to use Outlook for Mac. Where can I get help? Outlook for Mac is currently free to all individuals. Using an email program will require familiarity with using a computer . If you are comfortable, visit Sign into SFU Mail on Desktop for self-help instructions with Outlook for Mac. If you require additional IT assistance with Outlook for Mac, we ask that you seek assistance from your personal network, such as friends, family or colleagues. Retirees who wish to have the most user-friendly experience are recommended to use SFU Mail on Web Browser . IT Support Desk can only provide technical support on SFU Mail on Web Browser as the university's officially supported email program for retirees. I want to use Outlook for Mobile. Where can I get help? Outlook for Mobile (\"Outlook App\") is available on iOS and Android devices. You can connect only after your SFU Mail account has upgraded . Using an email app will require familiarity with using a mobile device . If you are comfortable, visit Sign into SFU Mail on Mobile for self-help instructions. If you require additional IT assistance with Outlook for Mobile, we ask that you seek assistance from your personal network, such as friends, family or colleagues. Retirees who wish to have the most user-friendly experience are recommended to use SFU Mail on Web Browser . IT", "ARE YOU USING EMAIL FORWARDING?\n\nMobile for self-help instructions. If you require additional IT assistance with Outlook for Mobile, we ask that you seek assistance from your personal network, such as friends, family or colleagues. Retirees who wish to have the most user-friendly experience are recommended to use SFU Mail on Web Browser . IT Support Desk can only provide technical support on SFU Mail on Web Browser as the university's officially supported email program for retirees. Encountering other Issues? Visit our complete SFU Mail Migration FAQs and Common Issues . New Changes to SFU Mail", "For a quick summary of the changes:\n\nNew Features SFU Mail now has the latest Outlook email features. SFU Mail on Browser will communicate with other Microsoft 365 apps. New Requirements to connecting to SFU Mail By integrating SFU Mail with the Microsft 365 suite, new security requirements ensure better data security for the SFU community and compliance with provincial privacy regulations. Only approved third-party email applications and tools can connect to SFU Mail. For details, see our External Tools/Apps Changes and FAQs . Connecting through IMAP/POP configurations now require OAuth2 authentication. Service Changes and Limits Mailbox storage limits are determined by your assigned Microsoft licensing. All SFU retirees have up to 50 GB of mailbox storage. With modern accident prevention features available to SFU Mail, email backup are not provided by SFU/Microsoft to ensure efficient use of resources. SFU Mail is secured by Microsoft enterprise-level security. Compatibility Older mobile devices may not be able to connect to SFU Mail through email apps. For continued access, you can always access SFU Mail through the new weblink, https://outlook.office.com on any browser. Older browsers will continue to work on SFU Mail. For details, visit Compatibility at New Changes to SFU Mail . For more information on changes and new features, see New Change to SFU Mail . How do I know if I have upgraded to Exchange Online? There will be two major changes once your account is upgraded to Exchange Online: You will be asked to log into Microsoft when signing into SFU Mail . Your sign in email will be \u201cYourComputingID@sfu.ca\u201d. The user interface will be modernized when accessing SFU Mail on browser. Seeking Additional Support If you're seeking support on using SFU Mail on Browser", ":\n\nSend a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. Call IT Support Desk at 778-782-8888 . If you're seeking support on using your email programs or apps", ":\n\nWe ask that you seek assistance from your personal network, such as friends, family or colleagues. IT Support Desk can only provide technical support on SFU Mail on Web Browser as the university's officially supported email program for retirees.", "OVERVIEW\n\nMicrosoft will be retiring SharePoint 2019 and ending all support in July 2026. To reduce security risks, and protect academic, research, and business data, site owners are advised to migrate their active content out of sharepoint.sfu.ca as soon as possible.", "For more SharePoint Online resources:\n\nSharePoint Online - How-To Guides SharePoint Online - FAQs", "This article contains information on the following:\n\nWhat Should I Know? What are my Options? How to Migrate? Option 1: IT Services Migration Option 2: Self-Migration Site Audit Step 1: Check Your Inventory Step 2: Review and Cleanup Step 3: Take Notes on Access Permissions Step 4: Specify How You Want to Move Your Content Step 5: You're Ready to Submit a Request", "WHAT DOES THIS MEAN TO MY SHAREPOINT SITE?\n\nAs support for SharePoint 2019 will soon cease, you will need to migrate the active contents of your current site. Depending on your needs, your site will most likely migrate to either Microsoft Teams or SharePoint Online, with the support of IT Services. However, you may also choose to migrate your content somewhere else. See What Are My Options? for details.", "WHEN TO MIGRATE?\n\nSharePoint 2019 will be retired by July 2026 and replaced by Microsoft Teams and SharePoint Online. However, as Microsoft's support will cease, we encourage site owners to start the migration process as soon as possible. A few things to consider: Timing : The duration of the migration process will vary depending on the size and complexity of your site. Consider the best time of year for your unit to make this transition. Delays : If IT Services is migrating your content to Microsoft Teams or SharePoint Online, there could be delays depending on the number of migration requests we are supporting at that time. Improvements : If you migrate to Microsoft Teams or SharePoint Online, you may discover that these have far better usability and features than the current SharePoint 2019 \u2013 worth moving sooner rather than later!", "NEXT STEPS\n\nBetween November 2024 and January 2025, site owners will receive an email from the SharePoint team (IT Services). Site owners are asked to audit their site collections to identify active content for migration, transfer university records to the Archives and Records Management team and delete outdated content. An inventory spreadsheet will be provided for owners to assist with the audit and migration. We encourage site owners should migrate active content to another tool when available. There are two options to migrate: Option 1: IT Services Migration - IT Services can migrate their site content to Microsoft Teams or SharePoint Online after a site audit has been completed by the site owner.", "Option 2:\n\nSelf-migration - Site owners will migrate their site content themselves. See What Are My Options? for details on what's best for you.", "WHAT ARE MY OPTIONS?\n\nSite owners will have two options to migrate their site content. Option 1: IT Services Migration Option 2: Self-migration IT Services can migrate their site content to Microsoft Teams or SharePoint Online after a site audit has been completed by the site owner. Ideal for", ":\n\nSites that have a lot of content You wish to migrate to either Microsoft Teams or SharePoint Online Site owners will migrate their site content themselves. Ideal for", ":\n\nSites that have little content (where you can individually download or copy all your content to another space) You wish to migrate to somewhere else that is not Microsoft Teams or SharePoint Online Ready for next steps? Once you've determined what option you want to take, see How to Migrate? for details.", "UNSURE WHERE TO MIGRATE?\n\nAs part of the migration process, Site Owners will need to choose which tool to migrate their site content to. For some guidance: If you're considering SharePoint Online, be sure to check if SharePoint Online is still the right tool for you: How SharePoint sites are used at SFU - Supported and Unsupported Use-cases If you're considering another tool, be sure to check if that tool is right for you: Choosing a Document and Content Management Tool at SFU - Comparison Chart", "For technical information on SharePoint Online:\n\nDifferences between SharePoint 2019 and SharePoint Online", "HOW TO MIGRATE?\n\nTo migrate your site using IT Services Migration (Option 1)", ":\n\nBetween November 2024 and January 2025 , site owners have received an email from the SharePoint team (IT Services) with an attached Content Inventory Spreadsheet . Site owners will be asked to complete a Site Audit ( details outlined below ) . After completing the Site Audit , submit a request to SharePoint 2019 Migration Request Form and attach the completed Content Inventory Spreadsheet . You will be reached out to have a short consultation with IT Services to finalize the Content Inventory Spreadsheet . IT Services will begin migrating content to the specified locations. An email notification will be sent when the migration is finished. You will be asked to verify its completeness at the new location. Any items or settings that aren't migrated will need to be manually replicated by site owners: Site access permissions File or folder shared permissions Workflows OneNote items Some page webparts, layouts and styling Pages, including Wiki pages", "The following aspects of Lists:\n\nAttachments Views using Javascript and webparts", "The following metadata:\n\nContent types Author/Modified by for users that no longer exist Picture and video metadata from asset and classic media libraries After migration is verified by site owners, your SharePoint 2019 site collection will be deleted.", "NOTES\n\nRequests are processed on a first come, first served basis. Times will vary based on the number of active requests. Some SharePoint 2019 functionality might not have an equivalent in Microsoft 365. Visit Differences between SharePoint 2019 and SharePoint Online for details. IT Services will inform site owners which content cannot be migrated and will have to be manually built by them. Content migration into a location outside of Microsoft 365 needs to be completed by the site owner. To migrate your site using Self-Migration (Option 2)", ":\n\nBetween November 2024 and January 2025 , site owners will receive an email from the SharePoint team (IT Services) with an attached Content Inventory Spreadsheet . It's recommended that Site Owners complete a review and cleanup of their site content ( Step 2 of the Site Audit ) prior to migration. Site Owners migrate their active content the tool or service of their choice. Visit our self-migration resources for instructions on downloading your site content: SharePoint 2019 - Self Migration Guide on Files & Documents SharePoint 2019 - Self Migration Guide on Lists If you have questions, you can submit a request ticket at . When you've completed the self-migration of all your content on the Content Inventory Spreadsheet , reply to the email to let us know. Your SharePoint 2019 site collection will be deleted once we have confirmation.", "NOTES\n\nBe sure to know the limitations of self-migration. This includes there having no way to download multiple files at once from SharePoint 2019. If you are considering self-migration options, you will have to download your files manually one-by-one. For more Known Limitations, visit SharePoint 2019 - Self Migration Guide on Files & Documents and SharePoint 2019 - Self Migration Guide on Lists .", "SITE AUDIT\n\nCompleting a Site Audit is required as part of Step 2 on \"How to Migrate?\" . This is to clean up any inactive content and prepare for the migration. Each site owner will receive a site Content Inventory Spreadsheet when you receive an email notification to move out of SharePoint 2019. Use this site spreadsheet to complete your Site Audit", "STEP 1: CHECK YOUR INVENTORY\n\nOpen the Content Inventory Spreadsheet to see what should be moved out of SharePoint 2019. Review to ensure what's listed is correct to your knowledge. The spreadsheet contains the list of site pages, document libraries, forms and more that you own on SharePoint 2019 (referred to as containers for your site collection, which also includes any subsites and its containers). Note : Any containers on your site that are empty (e.g., have no content and items) will not be included in the Content Inventory Spreadsheet.", "STEP 2: REVIEW AND CLEAN UP\n\nVisit your sites, subsites and containers (document libraries, lists, forms, etc.) to review and cleanup your content. Sift through your documents, files and content to determine if they should be migrated , archived or destroyed . Standard practice to determine if content should be migrated , archived or destroyed", "goes as follows:\n\nIdentify Inactive Content : Any content that is past its retention schedule (as defined by SFU Archives and Records Management) can be inactive content. This can vary greatly depending on the contents of your site. Archive or Destroy Inactive Content", ":\n\nFollow the content's retention and filing guidelines on its retention schedule to either archive or destroy the inactive content. If you need to archive the inactive content (as specified by the guidelines to be kept as a university record), the content should be transferred to SFU Archives and Records Management . If you need to destroy the inactive content , follow the the guidelines on how to destroy, which typically involve deleting the content or move the content to your personal space. Migrate any remaining items or content ( active content ) to a new or different work space.", "TIP\n\nTo find relevant retention schedules to you, consider sorting By Department and selecting Show All when browsing the list of retention schedules. Additionally, here are some quick links to common retention schedules", "that can be applicable to all departments:\n\nTransitory Records Transitory Records - Documents of short-term usefulness, created to serve a temporary purpose and/or in the preparation of a final, official record. General Administrative, Program and Subject Files General Administrative, Program and Subject Files - Records may include correspondence and memoranda, statistics, reports and working papers, forms, mailing lists, policies and procedures, budgets, financial reports and transaction records, work orders, manuals, proposals, brochures and publications. Academic departments have similar functions and therefore their general office files are similar. Committee Files Committee Files - This schedule applies to records made or received and used to support the deliberations, decisions and activities of all committees formed by university-wide bodies. Records may include agendas, minutes, memoranda, correspondence, policies and procedures, support documentation, studies, reports, statistics and working papers. Once you have found a retention schedule that is relevant, select and expand \" Retention and Filing Guidelines \" for details on how and when to archive or destroy your content. For more tips, visit RRSDA Search Tips .", "STEP 3: TAKE NOTES ON ACCESS PERMISSIONS\n\nTake notes on access permissions to your site collection. This includes: Access permissions to your site, subsites, containers (document libraries, list, forms, pages, etc.) Individual file or folder sharing in the document library You will need to replicate it in the new location since access/shared permissions are not migrated.", "NOTES\n\nIf you use Subsites in SharePoint 2019, this feature has been deprecated. This is because Microsoft 365 has a flat site structure. Reminder that SharePoint is intended to be used only with SFU users. If you require sharing access with a non-SFU user, consider switching to Microsoft Teams or another tool .", "Important considerations:\n\nEnsure that your destination SharePoint Online site has enough free storage to accommodate the migrated content (storage size limit is 100GB) Go to: Site settings > Storage Metrics Documents or List items shouldn\u2019t be migrated to existing destination Document Libraries or Lists if the site columns are different The URL limit of 400 characters should be considered when deciding on the file name length and folder path depth", "MOVING TO TEAMS?\n\nMoving your content to Microsoft Teams will require you to have a team. If you wish to create a new team, visit the Request a new Team . Open the Content Inventory Spreadsheet .", "There will be two blank columns:\n\nMigrate (Y/N) and Target URL . Complete the spreadsheet by specifying on each container of your site collection (rows in the sheet) if it should be migrated and its target URL. For Target URLs, you can choose your root site (to migrate the entire container with its content) or an existing library/folder (to migrate all content from the container). Save the Content Inventory Spreadsheet . This will be attached to your submission when requesting a migration in Step 3 of \"How to Migrate?\" . Example of a completed Content Inventory Spreadsheet indicated by the two 'filled' last columns: Site Title Site URL Item Count Last Modified List URL List-Library Created By Migrate (Y/N) Target URL Initiatives https://sharep... 51 3/3/2024 https://sharep.../Shared Doc... Documents Demo", "Y\n\nhttps://1sfu.sharepoint.com/teams/... Initiatives https://sharep... 4 2/26/2024 https://sharep.../Pages/... Pages Demo", "Y\n\nhttps://1sfu.sharepoint.com/teams/... Initiatives https://sharep... 1 2/26/2024 https://sharep.../Lists/... Stakeholder Demo", "N\n\nBlue https://sharep.../Blue 4 2/26/2024 https://sharep.../Blue/Shared Doc... Documents Demo", "Y\n\nhttps://1sfu.sharepoint.com/teams/.../Blue-Old", "STEP 5: YOU'RE READY TO SUBMIT A REQUEST\n\nCongratulations! You've finished the Site Audit and completed the Content Inventory Spreadsheet . You are now ready to move onto Step 3 of \"How to Migrate?\" where the site owner sends a request to SharePoint 2019 Migration Request Form , attaching the completed content inventory spreadsheet.", "NEED ADDITIONAL SUPPORT?\n\nFor questions or assistance with SharePoint 2019 migration, site owners can request a support ticket using SharePoint - Ask a Question .", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the differences between SharePoint 2019 and SharePoint Online.", "For more SharePoint Online resources:\n\nSharePoint Online - How-To Guides SharePoint Online - FAQs Comparison: Feature-specific", "SPO\n\nSubsites Not available. Microsoft 365 has a flat structure. \"Open with Explorer\" Not available. However, you can sync to desktop via OneDrive and edit SharePoint site files and folders on \"File Explorer\" RSS Feed Not available. Comparison: Technical / High-level Feature/Aspect", "SPO\n\nGeneral Availability On-premises installation, part of Office Server 2019. Hosted by Microsoft, continuously updated. Access Control Supports classic and modern authentication methods, including AD FS. Primarily relies on Azure Active Directory for modern authentication methods, supports more complex scenarios. Database Requires SQL Server; managed by organization\u2019s IT. Managed by Microsoft; no direct access to the SQL database. Farm/Tenant Architecture Farm-based; multiple sites can be hosted within a farm. Requires manual scaling. Tenant-based in a multi-tenant environment. Automatically scaled by Microsoft. InfoPath/Power Apps Supports InfoPath; limited future support and no new development. Power Apps integration for forms and custom applications; InfoPath support is deprecated. Workflows/Power Automate Supports SharePoint 2010 and 2013 workflows. Workflow Manager required for 2013 workflows. Power Automate is the preferred tool for workflows; legacy workflows supported with limitations. Managed Metadata Supports managed metadata services; requires manual configuration and maintenance. Enhanced managed metadata services; integration with Microsoft 365 features like content types and term store. Navigation Classic and modern navigation options available; customization through SharePoint Designer or custom code. Modern navigation experiences; easier to configure and manage with improved user experience. Classic search experience; requires configuration and maintenance of search schema. Modern search experience with Microsoft Search; AI-powered, personalized results.", "IRM/DLP\n\nInformation Rights Management (IRM) available; requires Active Directory Rights Management Services. DLP capabilities are limited compared to SharePoint Online. Integrated with Microsoft 365 compliance center for advanced DLP and IRM features; supports labels, policies, and more comprehensive compliance tools. Site and Content Management Supports both classic and modern sites but with a focus on classic experiences; requires more manual effort to maintain and update. Modern sites with seamless integration with Microsoft 365 groups and applications; easier to create and maintain. Ecosystem and Integration Integrations with on-premises applications and services; limited cloud integration compared to SharePoint Online. Deep integration with Microsoft 365 suite (Teams, OneDrive, Yammer, etc.); extensive ecosystem of apps and services through the Microsoft cloud.", "Teaching and Learning Polling and Surveys", "OVERVIEW\n\nBelow are common questions about Simply Voting: a voting service that allows SFU units to conduct secure elections.", "FAQ\n\nHow do I find out more information about simply voting? See the Voting and Elections service page about Simply Voting at SFU. The vendor also has support and information on their homepage: https://simplyvoting.com Does sfu have an enterprise license for simply voting? Yes, SFU has an account with Simply Voting. Any email address (SFU or non-SFU) can participate in an election, but if you wish to host an election, then you must be an SFU account holder supporting teaching, learning, research, or administration at the university and request an account from the Voting and Elections service page . When should I use survey monkey or simply voting? Survey Monkey is the recommended web survey tool that is in use across the university. It offers extensive features including customizable surveys, secure data handling, and efficient data analysis tool. Simply Voting is the recommended voting tool that meets SFU\u2019s security functionality standards. This service is provided to support voting for university-related teaching, learning, research, and administrative purposes. how do i create or participate in an election in simply voting? To participate in an election, you can simply click on the link that was emailed directly to you, or you can visit https://sfu.simplyvoting.com and log in using your SFU Computing ID and password. You\u2019ll be able to view all the elections you\u2019re allowed to vote in if you\u2019ve been added to a vote using your SFU Computing ID. To hold an election, you will need to create an account from the Voting and Elections service page with your SFU ID to become an election manager. If you have already requested an account to be an election manager, to manage your elections you must visit: https://simplyvoting.com Enter \"sfu\" as the \"Voting Website\" and click the login button. This will then log you in via", "FAQ\n\nElections service page with your SFU ID to become an election manager. If you have already requested an account to be an election manager, to manage your elections you must visit: https://simplyvoting.com Enter \"sfu\" as the \"Voting Website\" and click the login button. This will then log you in via SFU CAS. Once logged in, you will see your Simply Voting dashboard where you can create or manage elections If you want to hold an election with both SFU and non-SFU users, you will need to use the vote segmentation tool . You can add voters for whom you have SFU Computing IDs into one segment and send them an invitation to log in using SFU CAS, and other users for whom you only have an email address can be put in a separate segment and sent a different email invitation that gives them a unique, one-time link to vote. It's best to send separate messages to each segment with instructions tailored for that group: for example, send a message to the SFU Computing ID group that simply points them to https://sfu.simplyvoting.com to log in, where they will see their eligible elections displayed on the dashboard; for the other segment with only email addresses, send them an email with the custom voting link. There are many ways to handle this situation, including the approach of sending all voters a unique link instead of requiring SFU CAS login: we'd suggest using CAS whenever possible and for highly sensitive votes where the strongest possible auditing is needed. For any other questions or support, you can visit Simply Voting\u2019s support page . How do I add voters if I want them to log in using SFU CAS? In order to require people to log in via SFU CAS, you must upload your voters'", "FAQ\n\nstrongest possible auditing is needed. For any other questions or support, you can visit Simply Voting\u2019s support page . How do I add voters if I want them to log in using SFU CAS? In order to require people to log in via SFU CAS, you must upload your voters' list with the Elector ID field containing the SFU Computing ID. The SFU Computing ID is the identifier that you usually use to log in to campus system without @sfu.ca appended. For example, \"kipling\" is the SFU Computing ID, not \"kipling@sfu.ca\" or other email address variants like \"rudyard_kipling@sfu.ca\" When you use this method, you can use the default email template to send out messages that will include only the voting website URL: https://sfu.simplyvoting.com . When a person visits that address, they will be asked to log in with SFU CAS and be presented with a dashboard showing them the elections for which they are eligible to vote. The default \"Email Blast\" template includes the SFU site URL via the {{voting_website_link}} placeholder, so the default email template can be used. I don't have a list of SFU Computing IDs, but I do have email addresses, how do I add voters? When you upload your voters list from a CSV file, you can use email addresses for both the \"Elector ID\" and the \"Email\" fields. In this scenario, people will not use SFU CAS to login but will instead get a unique link sent to allow a single vote to be made from each email address. When you use this method, you will need to modify the default \"Email Blast Template\" to replace {{voting_website_link}} with {{direct_vote_link}}. {{direct_vote_link}} will be replaced in the email body with a unique, one-time voting link for the recipient of the email. .", "\"VOTER ID\" AND CAS LOGIN\n\nThere are two ways that people can be given access to an election as a elector/voter in Simply Voting: Logging in with their SFU Computing ID via SFU CAS, or Email invitation, if you don't have SFU Computing IDs. Both methods offer anonymity and one-vote-per elector, but using SFU CAS is the preferred method for critical votes and elections. In order to use SFU CAS, your voters' list must be uploaded to Simply Voting using the electors' SFU Computing IDs. The SFU Computing ID is the 8-character-or-less ID that an individual typically types into systems to log in (eg. Rudyard Kipling may have an email address of rudyard_kipling@sfu.ca, but log in as \"kipling\" into SFU systems. The \"kipling\" variant is what is needed for the Simply Voting voters' list in order to enable log in using SFU CAS). If you have lists of voters in a tool such as SFU Maillist or SFU Groups, you can download the SFU Computing ID from those lists/groups, but you may need to remove the \"@sfu.ca\" suffix from each entry in order to get the format needed for Simply Voting -- eg. \"kipling@sfu.ca\" downloaded from one of those tools becomes \"kipling\") Note: Voter ID should be the SFU Computing ID (eg. \"kipling\"), not a staff/student ID number (eg. \"30005555\"). Computing IDs can be found in various administrative systems such as MyINFO for staff, or can be downloaded from SFU Maillist or SFU Groups if you have the target membership in an existing list or group. If you do *not* have a complete list of SFU Computing IDs for your electors/voters, you can alternatively use email addresses and have the system send out unique, one-time voting links to each email address on your voting list. Both methods restrict votes to one per voter appropriately. If", "\"VOTER ID\" AND CAS LOGIN\n\ngroup. If you do *not* have a complete list of SFU Computing IDs for your electors/voters, you can alternatively use email addresses and have the system send out unique, one-time voting links to each email address on your voting list. Both methods restrict votes to one per voter appropriately. If you use the approach where you have access to SFU Computing IDs you can ensure that voters are validated by SFU's CAS sign-on method, which provides an extra layer of security by requiring that the voter is authenticated directly at the time of voting.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to complete your group review on SFU Groups. SFU Groups require periodic review to certify that their membership is accurate and up-to-date, and that the group is still required. About Group Reviews How to Review", "A\n\ngroup review (or ) refers to the periodic review to certify that their membership is accurate and up-to-date, and that the group is still required or in-use on SFU Groups.", "The following groups are subject to periodic reviews:\n\nAll groups that start with", "ref:dept:\n\nSelect groups that start with", "WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE?\n\nAnyone who has the group manager role (or UPDATE + READ permissions in Grouper) on their groups are responsible for reviewing groups. All responsible individuals will receive an email from IT Services to complete group reviews.", "HOW OFTEN?\n\nGroup Reviews happen every 100 days to follow a semester (once per term/semester). When a group is marked for reviewing, you will have additional time for a reviewer to certify its membership. Once a group has completed its review, the 100 day duration will reset. If you happen to manage many groups, you may receive multiple \"group review\" emails throughout the week. Reminder emails will be send prior to the due date. If action hasn't been taken, additional reminder emails will be sent bi-weekly on the same group thereafter.", "EDITING ATTESTATION NOTIFICATION SETTINGS\n\nAttestation settings can only be modified by Grouper IT Admins. The only legitimate purposes to edit these settings are: changing who receives reminder emails to complete group reviews, or reducing the number of days to re-attest (more frequent). Reach out to your Grouper IT Admin if you need to edit these settings.", "STEP 1\n\nWait for your email notification. Group Managers will receive an email notification when your group is due for a review.", "STEP 2\n\nVisit SFU Groups or groups.sfu.ca . You should see a banner that lists which groups require reviewing. Select one of the listed group to review it . You can visit the group directly from the email notification.", "STEP 3\n\nReview your Group Members to ensure that it is accurate and up to date. Adjust your membership as needed. If the group is no longer needed, please contact your department's IT staff to delete the group or contact IT Services for assistance. Once reviewed, select the check box . Then, Mark Group as Reviewed .", "STEP 4\n\nRepeat Step 2 and Step 3 for any other groups that require reviewing. Congratulations! You've completed your semesterly group review.", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "SharePoint", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to self-migrate your files and documents (Document Libraries) from your SharePoint 2019 site to another tool. Known Limitations Download Your Files Upload Your Files Option A: Drag and drop Option B: Using \"Upload\" button Option C: Syncing with OneDrive desktop app Known Limitations Files in Document Libraries can be self-migrated if available for downloading. Please note the following restrictions: Downloading a file in SharePoint doesn't preserve its metadata", ", such as:\n\nDocument properties File access permissions Relative links between files Workflow information Version information Templates There is no way to download multiple files at once from SharePoint 2019. If you are considering self-migration options, you will have to download your files individually. Historically, \"Open with Explorer\" was the method for handling multiple files with its integration with Internet Explorer. Since the browser's retirement, Microsoft Edge does not support this feature making this feature obsolete. When uploading your files and folders onto Microsoft 365 document libraries, such as SharePoint Online, the total file and path length can be a maximum of 400 characters . You will encounter an error message upon uploading. Download Your Files", "To download your files from SharePoint 2019:\n\nOn a browser, visit your SharePoint 2019 site and navigate to a document library you wish to download. On a file, select \"...\" > \"...\" > Download . You will need to repeat Step 2 for every other file you wish to download. Upload Your Files There are a few ways to upload directly from your computer to SharePoint Online: Drag and drop Using \"Upload\" button Syncing with OneDrive desktop app", "OPTION A. DRAG AND DROP\n\nOn a browser, visit the Microsoft 365 document library you wish to upload your files onto, such as SharePoint Online site or Team's SharePoint site. Drag and drop the files to the SharePoint library. The library should display a highlight when you hover the file over it. The upload status can be monitored on the top-right corner of the document library.", "OPTION B. USING \"UPLOAD\" BUTTON\n\nOn a browser, visit the Microsoft 365 document library you wish to upload your files onto, such as SharePoint Online site or Team's SharePoint site. Select Upload > Files or Folder . Navigate to your files in the pop-up window and click Open . The upload status can be monitored on the top-right corner of the document library.", "OPTION C. SYNCING WITH ONEDRIVE DESKTOP APP\n\nThis option is only recommended to power users. Install and setup your SFU account with OneDrive Desktop. On a browser, visit the Microsoft 365 document library you wish to upload your files onto, such as SharePoint Online site or Team's SharePoint site. Select Sync to set up a sync connection with your account. Select Open . You will see a pop up from OneDrive. If you haven't already, you will be asked to sign into your OneDrive account. Enter SFUComputingID@sfu.ca and complete the sign-in process. Adjust your sync location if needed, then select Next . You will see a confirmation that your sync connection has been set up. Open the location of the files/folders you wish to upload and sync. Then, copy or move the files/folders to the newly created sync folder for your Microsoft 365 document library . In this example, we moved files and folders onto the pinned M365 Document Library folder on the Quick Access sidebar. Monitor the Status on your file explorer, or refresh the document library on your browser to see if your files have been uploaded by OneDrive.", "SharePoint", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to self-migrate your Lists from your SharePoint 2019 site to another tool. Known Limitations Export Your Lists Import Your Lists Known Limitations Lists can be self-migrated by using Excel Spreadsheets. Please note the following restrictions: Some List Column Types doesn't exist in SharePoint Online and will require re-assigning to another type. These Column Types include: Rating Scale (a matrix of choices or a Likert scale) Page Separator (inserts a page break into your survey) Full HTML content with formatting and constraints for publishing Image with formatting and constraints for publishing Hyperlink with formatting and constraints for publishing Summary Links data Rich media data for publishing There's no way to 'directly download' the List as a file to be then uploaded in another location. Lists can be exported to an Excel spreadsheet, then using that Excel file, import it into SharePoint Online as a List. When exporting a List into Excel, some Column Types may revert to a generic type . For example, a column with \"Time/Date\" type becomes \"Numerical\" when the List is exported. You will need to re-assign the correct Column Type when importing into SharePoint Online as a new List. When exporting a List into Excel, there is a maximum character limit of 32,000 for each cell . After which, any remaining content is not saved on that specific cell. Displaying 12 or more columns of the following types", "can cause a list view threshold error:\n\npeople , lookup , and managed metadata . Other column types are not impacted. Export Your Lists", "To export your List to an Excel spreadsheet:\n\nOn a browser, visit your SharePoint 2019 site and navigate to the list. Select List from the tabs, then Export to Excel You will download a query.iqy item. Open this item. Excel will open. Select Enable . On some computers, you may encounter this error. Select Open Trust Center . Select Ask me what to do for each host , then close Excel . Re-open the query.iqy item. Select Yes . You will be asked to log into SFU CAS. If you encounter this error, select Yes . If this error reappears, continue to select Yes . This is caused by Microsoft's sign-in engine using a built-in version of Internet Explorer that doesn't handle modern scripts. Complete the sign-in process to your SFU account. Excel should open with content from your List. Save this new spreadsheet. Import Your Lists", "To import your List into a SharePoint Online site:\n\nOn a browser, visit your SharePoint Online site. From the page, select +New > List . Select From Excel . Select Upload file , then find and open the Excel spreadsheet you've exported. Adjust your column types if needed. Then, select Next . Make any adjustments to your new list. Then, select Create . Confirm that your new list has been fully created.", "SharePoint Operational and communication sites intended for all faculty and staff (university-wide) will not be provisioned at this time. This decision is part of the SFU Communications & Marketing effort to strategically develop intranet-related content in the future.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how SharePoint Online sites are used at SFU (i.e., supported and unsupported use-cases).", "For more SharePoint Online resources:\n\nSharePoint Online - How-To Guides SharePoint Online - FAQs Choosing a Document and Content Management Tool at SFU", "USES FOR SHAREPOINT SITES\n\nNote : In this article, the term \"SharePoint sites\" refers to standalone SharePoint sites. Not to be confused with integrated SharePoint sites with Teams (or Teams sites), these are part of Microsoft Teams. Visit SharePoint Online FAQs for a detailed explanation.", "SUPPORTED SITES\n\nSharePoint sites should be viewed as an internal web space for publishing operational and communication resources to defined SFU faculty or staff groups. This means that SharePoint sites are ideal", "for:\n\nPublishing, sharing and communicating internal and page-heavy content An internal web space with a focus on content available for viewing or consumption An audience that goes beyond your team, but only includes defined SFU faculty or faculty groups Some examples of internal and page-heavy content", ":\n\nInternal information web pages such as: about, overviews, policies, announcements, updates, news Final versions of files for distribution: documents, forms, templates and media Some examples of support use-cases", "are:\n\nDepartmental sharing, publication or communication space for beyond departmental audiences Committee sites (SFU-only) Project or initiative sites for communication Safety and training sites", "UNSUPPORTED SITES\n\nSharePoint sites have tools focused on publishing to an SFU-only audience and are not ideal", "for:\n\nA working space, collaboration or productivity needs (see Why Microsoft Teams for collaboration? ) Content that requires productivity tools (Planner, workflows, automation) Student-facing content, or content that is primarily for student consumption External-facing content, or content that requires sharing or access to external (non-SFU) individuals Archival or data resiliency needs Research data (unless specified by research contract or aligns with research needs) Some examples of unsupported use-cases", "are:\n\nSites that have an external-facing audience outside of SFU Duplicate sites: MS Teams-connected SharePoint site for this area of work for the same audience already exists Projects or initiatives for collaboration Departmental collaboration space Research working space Archival repositories Why Microsoft Teams for collaboration? Microsoft Teams offers a variety of built-in collaboration features, making it the more ideal collaboration and productivity tool compared to SharePoint Online. These Teams-only features", "include:\n\nInstant messaging (or chat) Video meetings Built-in productivity tools and apps (Calendar, Planner, workflows, automation) Alternatively, visit Choosing a Document and Content Management Tool at SFU if you wish to look at other tools. Visit Microsoft Teams Ready to request a site? If you're sure that SharePoint sites will fit your needs, you can request a site. If you're still unsure or have any questions, visit SharePoint Ask a Question to submit a request. Request a Site", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article lists the frequently asked questions for SFU Groups. Frequently Asked Questions", "GENERAL\n\nI'm new to SFU. Where should I start with Group Management? We recommend reading the Introduction to Group Management and Comparison Chart for a better understanding on how groups are used at SFU. If you wish to explore options for emailing services at SFU, visit Email Distribution Lists . What are the different group types? In SFU Groups, groups are used to organize users who have similar roles or responsibilities. Think of a group as a team or a club: when you add users to a group, you can manage their access to resources and privileges all at once, instead of doing it individually for each user. There are two types SFU Groups: Exchange Distribution Group", ":\n\nExchange Distribution Groups (EDGs, or distribution groups) is a feature of Microsoft Exchange (SFU's email system) that allows a user to send messages to a list of SFU email addresses, or to members of other SFU Groups, all at once. For more details, visit Requst a Group (Exchange Distribution) . Security Group", ":\n\nSecurity groups (or reference groups) are used for security or access control to services or resources. Security groups contain a list of SFU members and can be synced to multiple services or resources to provide access, assign privileges or provision licensing. For more information, visit Request a Security Group (Reference Group) . What is Direct and Indirect membership type? While viewing groups in SFU Groups, you may see that members are listed as direct or indirect members. Direct Member", ":\n\nIf you add an individual or another group as a member to your group, the individual/group is classified as a direct member to your group. Indirect Member", ":\n\nAdding another group (a \"nested\" or \"child\" group) to your group will automatically populate all the individuals from the \"nested/child\" group. These individuals will appear on your group membership and are classified as indirect members to your group.", "EXCHANGE DISTRIBUTION GROUPS\n\nWhat is an exchange distribution group? Exchange Distribution Groups (EDGs, or distribution groups) is a feature of Microsoft Exchange (SFU's email system) that allows a user to send messages to a list of SFU email addresses, or to members of other SFU Groups, all at once. For more details, visit Request a Group (Exchange Distribution) . How do I add or remove managers on Exchange Distribution groups? If you are a manager of a group, you can add or remove other managers by adding or removing members on the 'group managers' privilege tab . Can I set a Manager to not receive email? Yes. As long as a group manager is also not a group member , they will not receive emails on the distribution group. Can I set my Exchange Distribution Group to receive email outside of SFU? Yes. You can adjust this under Edit Distribution Group Settings and set it to be a Public group . Note : Know that this also increases the likelihood to receive spam emails. Can I add a security group (Reference Group) as a member of my Exchange Distribution Group? Yes. This is ideal for very large or complicated distribution groups. Such groups may benefit from having automated memberships or auto-populated groups . Can I use an Exchange Distribution Group with SimpleList? Technically, yes, as long as you have enabled the group to be public. You can adjust this under Edit Distribution Group Settings and set it to be a Public group . Note : Know that there isn\u2019t no self-unsubscribe for Exchange Distribution Groups. Can I use an Exchange Distribution Group with Campaigner? Technically, yes, as long as you have enabled the group to be public. You can adjust this under Edit Distribution Group Settings and set it to be a Public", "EXCHANGE DISTRIBUTION GROUPS\n\nNote : Know that there isn\u2019t no self-unsubscribe for Exchange Distribution Groups. Can I use an Exchange Distribution Group with Campaigner? Technically, yes, as long as you have enabled the group to be public. You can adjust this under Edit Distribution Group Settings and set it to be a Public group . Note : Know that if someone from the distribution group clicks \"unsubscribe\" on the Campaigner email, the entire distribution group will be unsubscribed. How do I rename my Exchange Distribution Group? Unfortunately, there is no easy way to rename Exchange Distribution Groups once it has been created. We recommend simply requesting a new Exchange Distribution Group with the corrected name. In rare cases where you need to have an existing Exchange Distribution Group renamed, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . How do I delete my Exchange Distribution Group? Any deletion requests for Exchange Distribution Groups will need to be done by our Identity team. Request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry .", "SECURITY GROUPS\n\nWhat is a security group? Security groups (or reference groups) are used for security or access control to services or resources. Security groups contain a list of SFU members and can be synced to multiple services or resources to provide access, assign privileges or provision licensing. For more information, visit Request a Security Group (Reference Group) . How do I add or remove managers on Security groups? Only Grouper IT admins can add or remove managers on security groups. Contact your department's IT staff (or the individual who has originally created the group on your behalf) to make the adjustments. If you are unsure, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . What are Group Reviews and why am I getting emails?", "A\n\ngroup review (or attestation) refers to the periodic review to certify that their membership is accurate and up-to-date, and that the group is still required or in-use on SFU Groups. To ensure that security groups don't become stale, group reviews happen every 100 days to follow a semester (once per term/semester) and email notifications are sent to group managers to review and certify their groups are accurate and are still in-use. If you happen to manage many groups, you may receive multiple \"group review\" emails throughout the week. If you are no longer supposed to be a manager of the group, or the group is no longer needed, contact your department's IT staff (or the individual who has originally created the group on your behalf) to make any modifications your security group. If you are unsure, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . How do I rename my Security Group? Unfortunately, renaming security groups after it has been created can sever its connection with other SFU systems and cause additional problems. We recommend against renaming security groups unless there's a clear reason to do so. In rare cases where you need to have a security group renamed, contact your department's IT staff (or the individual who has originally created the group on your behalf) to rename your security group. If you are unsure, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . How do I delete my Security Group? Contact your department's IT staff (or the individual who has originally created the group on your behalf) to delete your security group. If you are unsure, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry .", "TROUBLESHOOTING\n\nWhy am I not receiving emails from an Exchange Distribution Group? The two common reasons for not receiving emails from an Exchange Distribution Group: Double-check that you are a member of the group. Group Managers wanting to receive email need to also be included as a member. You sent your email too quickly before membership changes have been synced. If you recently made changes to your group membership, you will need to wait an additional 30 minutes for the changes to fully sync to Microsoft servers. Why do I see \"Entity not found\" in the membership of my group? This is because someone (usually another manager) has added another group as a member to your group. Because you don't have view permissions to the added group, it appears as \"entity not found\" on your side. Why aren't changes applied to my security group or distribution group? If you are making changes to Exchange Distribution Groups or security groups linked to a Microsoft service (e.g., Teams, SharePoint), you will need to wait an additional 30 minutes for your changes to fully sync to Microsoft servers.", "NEED ADDITIONAL SUPPORT?\n\nFor additional assistance, request a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Articles (1) Service Migrations to SFU Groups (Grouper) SFU Maillist to SFU Groups migration tracking. Related Services / Offerings (1) Email Distribution Lists Tools that provides the ability to send email messages to multiple email addresses using a list or a group.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines sensitivity labels and how they are applied in Microsoft 365 at SFU. What are Sensitivity Labels? Sensitivity Label Classifications What to expect when Sensitivity Labels are applied to data? What are Sensitivity Labels? A sensitivity label is a way to classify documents and content to protect it. By applying a sensitivity label, a document gains additional security features that help you securely work and collaborate with sensitive or confidential data at SFU. For example, an email containing personal information may use a confidential label that prevents recipients from forwarding the email, printing it, or copy-pasting text from it. Sensitivity labels at the university follow SFU's data security standard to help you safeguard content that may have confidential information. How to use sensitivity labels? Sensitivity labels can be applied to files, emails, meetings and more. There are also several convenient ways to use them in Microsoft 365 apps (such as Word, Excel, Outlook...etc) so you can add them based on what you're working on. For online resources, explore the support.microsoft.com website or see the overview articles below. Apply sensitivity labels to your files and email Apply sensitivity labels to email messages in Outlook Sensitivity Label Classifications Individual Data Public Data Internal Data Regulated Data (Confidential)", "INDIVIDUAL DATA\n\nDescription Individual Data is non-SFU related data. This classification is intended for personal material not related to SFU business. Example Use Cases You are sharing personal vacation photos with a friend. You are corresponding on deals about personal services (family phone plans, vacation travel discounts etc.). You are collaborating on a student paper for a class project. Examples of data commonly identified as individual data includes, but is not limited to: Communicating about non-SFU events (lunch plans...etc.). Documents not related to SFU business (books, photos...etc.). Restrictions Applied No restrictions are automatically applied by this label.", "PUBLIC DATA\n\nDescription Public Access Data is data that is generally available to all employees, the public, and the media. This information is deemed to be public by legislation or policy. Example Use Cases You are sharing university advertising media. You are corresponding with external partners about public university events. You are collaborating on an infographic containing public statistics about the university. Examples of data commonly identified as public access data includes, but is not limited to: Student events. Course advertisements. Public research material. Publicly posted job descriptions. Restrictions Applied No restrictions are automatically applied by this label.", "INTERNAL DATA\n\nDescription Internal Data is related to SFU business (such as work done by SFU employees or other authorized users) and is most commonly the type of data that is stored within a controlled access system. This is typically the default category for SFU business data, and is used for information that is not Public Access Data or Regulated Data. Example Use Cases You are sharing contact information about a student. You are corresponding with a co-worker about the employment history of a new hire. You are collaborating on the review of an incident that contains details about the recorded personal views and opinions of an individual. Examples of data commonly identified as Internal Data includes, but is not limited to: Names, home addresses and personal telephone numbers. Student or employee ID numbers. Marital or family status. For examples of personal information under FIPPA, see Protection of Privacy: Schedule 1 . Restrictions Applied Security Controls are automatically applied by label when assigned (see below). This sensitively label will apply additional encryption to ensure privacy while being shared. Recipients may be asked to verify their identity when opening shared content depending on the apps they are using. Document Permissions (e.g. Word/Excel files) Permissions SFU Accounts External Users", "VIEW CONTENT\n\nAllows the user to open and see the document. Yes Yes", "EDIT CONTENT\n\nAllows the user to modify, rearrange, format, or sort the content inside the application, which includes Office on the web. It does not grant the right to save the edited copy. Yes Yes", "COPY AND EXTRACT CONTENT\n\nEnables options to copy data (including screen captures or Microsoft 365 Copilot) from the document into the same or another document. Yes No", "EXPORT CONTENT (SAVE AS)\n\nEnables the option to save the content to a different file name (save as). No No", "SAVE\n\nAllows the user to save the document to the current location. In Office on the web, it also allows the user to edit the content. Yes Yes", "PRINT\n\nEnables the options to print the content. Yes No", "ALLOW MACROS\n\nEnables the option to run macros or perform other programmatic or remote access to the content in a document. Yes Yes Email Permissions Permissions SFU Accounts External Users", "REPLY\n\nEnables the reply option in an email client, without allowing changes in the to or cc lines. Yes Yes", "REPLY ALL\n\nEnables the reply all option in an email client, but doesn\u2019t allow the user to add recipients to the to or cc lines. Yes Yes", "FORWARD\n\nEnables the option to forward an email message and to add recipients to the to and cc lines. This right does not apply to documents; only email messages. Does not allow the forwarder to grant rights to other users as part of the forward action. Yes Yes", "REGULATED DATA (CONFIDENTIAL)\n\nDescription Regulated Data is very sensitive data protected from general distribution and stored within a controlled access system. This information is protected by legal contract, legislation, or regulation. Example Use Cases You are sharing credit card information with a co-worker to approve a purchase. You are corresponding with a co-worker about scholarship applicants and are sharing student financial histories. You are collaborating on a document containing health data about individuals for a research project. Examples of data commonly identified as Regulated Data (Confidential) includes, but is not limited to: Medical history (e.g., personal data maintained on any patient, student, employee or disability case file describing medical conditions, diagnoses, treatment and procedures; prescribed drugs; psychological and psychiatric evaluations; occupational health and safety; etc.) Financial history (e.g., banking, tuition, loan, grants and tax information; donors and donations; personal credit card information; etc.) Criminal history (e.g., criminal record checks; etc). Restrictions Applied Security Controls are automatically applied by the label when assigned (see below). This sensitively label will apply additional encryption to ensure privacy while being shared. Recipients may be asked to verify their identity when opening shared content depending on the apps they are using. Document Permissions (e.g. Word/Excel files) Permissions SFU Accounts External Users", "VIEW CONTENT\n\nAllows the user to open and see the document. Yes Yes", "EDIT CONTENT\n\nAllows the user to modify, rearrange, format, or sort the content inside the application, which includes Office on the web. It does not grant the right to save the edited copy. Yes No", "COPY AND EXTRACT CONTENT\n\nEnables options to copy data (including screen captures or Microsoft 365 Copilot) from the document into the same or another document. No No", "EXPORT CONTENT (SAVE AS)\n\nEnables the option to save the content to a different file name (save as). No No", "SAVE\n\nAllows the user to save the document to the current location. In Office on the web, it also allows the user to edit the content. Yes No", "PRINT\n\nEnables the options to print the content. Yes No", "ALLOW MACROS\n\nEnables the option to run macros or perform other programmatic or remote access to the content in a document. No No Email Permissions Permissions SFU Accounts External Users", "REPLY\n\nEnables the reply option in an email client, without allowing changes in the to or cc lines. Yes Yes", "REPLY ALL\n\nEnables the reply all option in an email client, but doesn\u2019t allow the user to add recipients to the to or cc lines. Yes Yes", "FORWARD\n\nEnables the option to forward an email message and to add recipients to the to and cc lines. This right does not apply to documents; only email messages. Does not allow the forwarder to grant rights to other users as part of the forward action. Yes No", "SharePoint", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to add or remove site owners, members or visitors on SharePoint Online sites. Add Site Owners, Members or Visitors Remove Site Owners, Members or Visitors", "ADD SITE OWNERS, MEMBERS OR VISITORS\n\nTo add a site owner, member or visitor to your site:", "Note:\n\nSite owners should take advantage of membership automation by using SFU Groups. This automation simplifies the maintenance of access management. For more information, visit SharePoint Online - Automating Membership with SFU Groups . On your SharePoint Online site, select Site Access near the top-right corner. Enter the name or SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca, to add as a site owner, member or visitor. Select the user that you're looking to add. Repeat Step 2 and 3 to add multiple users. By default, users will be given Read permissions, or site visitor permissions. If you wish to change this, select Read under the user's name, then select Full Control for site owner permissions or Edit for site member permissions. If you wish, you can include an invitation with a message. Select Share to add and apply permissions. Confirm that you have added site owners, members or visitors. Congratulations! You've added site owners, members or visitors to your site. If you have sent out invitation emails, they will receive the following to their SFU Mail:", "REMOVE SITE OWNERS, MEMBERS OR VISITORS\n\nTo remove a site owner, member or visitor to your site: On your SharePoint Online site, select Site Access near the top-right corner. On the user you wish to remove, select Full Control / Edit / Read under the user's name, then select Remove . Confirm that the user has been removed. Congratulations! You've removed site owners, members or visitors to your site. For a list of available resources, visit SharePoint Online - How-To Guides . For questions, see our SharePoint Online - FAQs .", "Information Security Secure Computing", "OVERVIEW\n\nSFU is committed to protecting the digital information and systems that are critical to teaching, research, and university operations. Cyber attacks and phishing attempts are on the rise and continue to get more sophisticated. Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) is a proactive security solution that protects against malicious activity before it can create a problem to the end user. EDR software runs in the background of your managed device and if/when malicious activity is identified, you will receive a pop-up notice.", "DETAILS\n\nSFU is committed to protecting the digital information and systems that are critical to teaching, research and university operations. Cyber-attacks and phishing attempts are on the rise and continue to get more sophisticated. IT Services strives to protect and mitigate cybersecurity risks for SFU.", "EDR FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS\n\nWhat is endpoint detection & response? Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) is a proactive security solution that protects against malicious activity before it can create a problem to the end user. To recognize and respond to potential threats and to protect the SFU community\u2019s information and data, Information Security Services and IT Services are creating a more secure digital space and will continue to execute projects like EDR from the latest security plan. Why is EDR being implemented? EDR, along with other information security initiatives such as Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) and regularly resetting our passwords, are proactive ways we can enhance our ability to counter cyber-attacks and better protect the SFU community. IS EDR Monitoring my files or webpages I visit? No. EDR software monitors malicious application activity and doesn\u2019t monitor individual use or their files. It is NOT monitoring and reporting individuals\u2019 activities on the web nor processing or indexing their files or other information on their computers. The new EDR program monitors what applications are doing on your computer \u2013 not you. How does it Impact Managed Devices? Users don\u2019t need to do anything and won\u2019t notice any differences on their managed devices unless there\u2019s a malicious attack on their computer. EDR software runs in the background of your managed device and if/when malicious activity is identified, you will receive a pop-up notice. Users with EDR installed may also notice a new green circle icon in the menu on your device. How edr can help mitigate effects of a ransomware attack? EDR works at the kernel level, to evaluate and prevent activity that the operating system simply shouldn\u2019t be doing. As compared to anti-virus software which uses canned heuristics or file-based signatures to block activity.", "Example:\n\nRansomware is trying to encrypt a file system. If standard Windows tools are used to start the encryption, anti-virus won't stop it because it's not malware per se. It's a Windows process doing its job. However, EDR would stop it because the process that kicks off the encryption isn't started by Windows security policy or other standard deployment methods. Endpoint detection and response works by observing endpoint and system events and recording the data in a focal database to facilitate examination, location, detailing, and alerting occurrences. What if I don't have an sfu managed devices? SFU faculty and staff without managed devices are encouraged to opt-in to being managed, which allows for continual software updates and enhanced security via the Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR). This provides greater cyber security measures for SFU IT systems. Contact your local IT support to opt-in to having your device managed. For general assistance, Get Help from the Service Desk. For unmanaged devices, IT Services has secured some licenses for Trend Micro Apex One , an enterprise class endpoint security software. It is available to faculty and staff through March 19, 2025. What do I do if my application is blocked by edr? Please submit a block review request via the EDR service page .", "SharePoint", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how you can use SFU Groups to automate membership and permissions on your SharePoint site. What I should know? Setup Sync Connection", "WHERE TO FIND MY SITES' SPO SECURITY GROUPS\n\nEvery SharePoint Online (SPO) site has three security groups available on SFU Groups: resource:app:ADSFU:AzureGroups:SPO:spo-<sitename>-members resource:app:ADSFU:AzureGroups:SPO:spo-<sitename>-owners resource:app:ADSFU:AzureGroups:SPO:spo-<sitename>-visitors These should be accessible by site owners on SFU Groups ( groups.sfu.ca ) under Manage Your Groups > Security Groups . Note : If you are a site owner and you don't have access to these Security Groups on SFU Groups linked to your site, request UPDATE and READ access to these groups by sending a support ticket using SharePoint - Ask a Question . Note : By default, adding or removing members to your security groups on SFU Groups will not do anything. Site Owners will need to setup the syncing. See Setup Sync Connection for instructions.", "MEMBERSHIP SYNCING AND MICROSOFT SECURITY GROUPS\n\nAbout every hour, a membership sync will happen between your SFU Groups Security Groups and its linked Microsoft Security Group. These Microsoft Security Groups are named: spo-<sitename>-members spo-<sitename>-owners spo-<sitename>-visitors These Microsoft Security Groups can then be used in various places in Microsoft 365 at SFU. In this context however, these Microsoft Security Groups can be used to manage permissions on your SharePoint Online site.", "Please note the following syncing behaviours:\n\nBy default, adding or removing members to your security groups on SFU Groups will not do anything. Site Owners will need to setup the syncing. See Setup Sync Connection for instructions. Contrary to the behaviour in Microsoft Teams , any users added directly in SharePoint via Site Access are not affected by the sync from security groups.", "For standard SFU Groups users:\n\nThose who are not Grouper Admins will need to contact their local IT support staff for assistance with setting up automation. You may refer them to this page on how to add automation to your SPO site. Once you are given a reference group with your specified automation needs from your local IT support staff (e.g., ref:dept:its:dto:my-site-group ), you will need to add this group as a member to your SPO Security Group. Visit SFU Groups Add or Remove Members for instructions on how to add a member to a SFU Group. Visit Where to find my Sites' Security Group if you don't know where to find your SPO Security Group.", "For technical group manager (Grouper Admins):\n\nGrouper Admins are those who have access to the full-weight Grouper application ( grouper.its.sfu.ca ). To add automation to SPO site membership or permissions, it is generally recommended to add a basis group as a member to the security groups for your site. Which basis group you should add depends who should be synced to the SPO site. Basis groups are usually auto-populated, group membership data coming from system of record, meaning, there will be automated on boarding and off boarding to your SPO site permissions once set up with a basis group. For a more defined group, you may want to use composite groups to create filters or conditions to narrow down a particular basis group or multiple basis groups. If you are setting up automation on behalf of a user, create a reference group with the appropriate basis group / automation based on the user's needs. Then, provide the user READ permissions to the reference group and the reference group (full path). This will allow the user to add the reference group as a member to their SPO Security Group on SFU Groups ( groups.sfu.ca ).", "An example of the final result can be:\n\nresource:app:ADSFU:AzureGroups:SPO:spo-digital-transformation-office-members (which is managed by Site Owner) contains ref:dept:its:dto:my-site-group (which is managed by Local IT) contains basis:dept:12345 (automatically includes any SFU staff from a specified unit/dept. based on HR data) Visit Technical Documentation for Grouper for more information about Grouper.", "SETUP SYNC CONNECTION\n\nTo setup your Microsoft Security Groups onto your SPO site for a sync connection: On your SharePoint Online site, select Site Access near the top-right corner. Enter the name of your Microsoft Security Group for your SPO site , spo-<sitename>-members or spo-<sitename>-owners or spo-<sitename>-visitors . Select the Microsoft Security Group you wish to add.", "Apply the proper permissions to the group:\n\nEdit for site member permissions, Full Control for site owner permissions or Read for visitor permissions. Select Share . Confirm if the Security Group has been added. You may want to ask a member from the Security Group to try accessing your site. Note : If you have recently made membership changes to the security group from SFU Groups, please wait an hour for the sync to finish. For a list of available resources, visit SharePoint Online - How-To Guides . For questions, see our SharePoint Online - FAQs .", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to protect yourself from phishing email scams, which aim to steal your personal information. What is Phishing? Spotting a Phishing Attempt How you can protect yourself? I Received a Phishing Attempt I Responded to a Phishing Attempt Report Phishing Outlook on the Web (with the Report Phishing button) Outlook on Desktop (copy message header and forwarding to abuse@sfu.ca) What is Phishing?", "TIP\n\nUnder no circumstances will SFU ever request our users to provide or confirm their computing ID and password using email messages. You should never send your SFU account credentials to anyone. SFU, like many other universities, is the subject of \"phishing\" attacks. Phishing is an attempt to acquire sensitive personal information , such as usernames, passwords and banking information by masquerading as a trustworthy party in an electronic communication. Phishing is typically carried out by email or instant messaging and often directs users to enter details at a website or in a email reply. The term is a variant of fishing and alludes to the use of increasingly sophisticated baits used in the hope of a \"catch\" of personal information.", "SPOTTING A PHISHING ATTEMPT\n\nAbove is an example of a phishing attempt sent from a compromised SFU account.", "TIP\n\nPhishing scams will always attempt to steal personal information. If there are any suspicious requests for your personal information , look for any indicators to determine if it may be a phishing attempt. 1. The Sender The Sender : The contents of the email message should match who sent the email. Also, be sure that the email ends with \"@sfu.ca\". As an example, IT related messages should come from an SFU IT staff or role account that ends with \"@sfu.ca\". Ask yourself, does it make sense for this individual to send the contents in the email message and was this sent from an SFU email? In this example, a student account was sending this message on assistance programs which should raise some red flags. 2. Format or layout Format or Layout : Official SFU messages put in considerable effort not appear like phishing email. This includes introductions, additional context and support points, proper use of SFU logos, fonts, highlights and punctuation. Ask yourself, does this message contain sufficient information and proper use of formatting? In this example, there is insufficient context around why you are eligible, and odd usages of SFU logo and punctuations. 3. Honeypot or Threatening Language Honeypot or Threatening Language : Phishing emails tend to include language that incentives or threatens the user to take urgent action before a deadline, whether it may be a reward or consequence. Ask yourself, is this too good (or bad) to be true and if I'm being rushed? In this example, it attempts to bait users to provide their information for financial incentives. 4. Grammar Errors or Awkward Phrasing Grammar Errors or Awkward Phrasing : Similar to Point #2, official SFU messages put in considerable effort to ensure that there are no grammar errors or awkward phrasing. Although mistakes may happen,", "TIP\n\nit attempts to bait users to provide their information for financial incentives. 4. Grammar Errors or Awkward Phrasing Grammar Errors or Awkward Phrasing : Similar to Point #2, official SFU messages put in considerable effort to ensure that there are no grammar errors or awkward phrasing. Although mistakes may happen, a significant number of typos, grammar errors or awkward phrasing can indicate phishing attempts if there are call to actions. Ask yourself, are there typos, grammar errors or awkward phrasing in the email message? In this example, there are many incorrect usage of punctuations and awkward phrasing. 5. External Links or Suspicious Attachments External Links or Suspicious Attachments : Official SFU messages make a conscious effort to let readers know where links will take them and if there are any attachments. Any form links should point to an SFU service, such as SFU's Microsoft Form or SurveyMonkey. For attachments, in most cases, they should be office files, .docx, .xlsx, .pdf, .pptx. Be wary of any non-office files, unless you're expecting it to be. Ask yourself, does this link take me to website I've never seen before? Or, am I being asked to open an attachment I wasn't expecting? In this example, the phishing message is attempting to persuade users to go to an unknown webform and fill out their personal information. 6. Odd sign off and signature Odd Sign Off and Signature : The signature of the email message should match who (the account) is sending the email. Similar to Point #2, the sign off should be professionally written and formatted. Ask yourself, does the signature look strange and does it match with the sender? In this example, the sign off does not match the sender. Additionally, the signature does not look professional. How you can protect yourself?", "I RECEIVED A PHISHING ATTEMPT\n\nIf you receive an email message asking for your SFU Computing ID and password: Never provide your computing ID or password through email messages no matter how official or convincing request seems. SFU will never request to provide or confirm your computing ID and password using email messages. Dont reply or respond. Simply delete the message or select 'Report' (if available). Even responding to the message with content such as \"please don't send me spam\" simply confirms to the sender that they have contacted a live email address and increases your odds of receiving more spam in the future.", "I RESPONDED TO A PHISHING ATTEMPT\n\nIf you have responded to a phishing message with your SFU Computing ID and password, change your password immediately. You can change your SFU password at SFU Computing Account . If your SFU Computing Account has been compromised and subsequently locked, contact IT Services by phone or in-person . Report Phishing To report phishing, use Outlook's Report Phishing button. Alternatively, you may also forward any phishing messages to abuse@sfu.ca with its message header if the button is not available.", "See the instructions:\n\nOutlook on the Web (with the Report Phishing button) Outlook on Desktop (copy message header and forwarding to abuse@sfu.ca)", "OUTLOOK ON THE WEB\n\nSelect the phishing message from the inbox. Select Report > Report Phishing . Thank you for reporting illegitimate messages! Our SFU Exchange administrators will receive the report and will take further action to minimize the impact to our community.", "OUTLOOK ON DESKTOP\n\nDouble-click the email message from your inbox to pop-out the message. Select Files > Properties . On the Internet Headers box, Right-Click > Select All , then Right Click > Copy to copy the entire message header. Go back to the phishing message and select Forward . On the Message Field, Right-Click > Paste to paste the entire message header. On the To Field, enter abuse@sfu.ca . Then, select Send . Thank you for reporting illegitimate messages! Our SFU Exchange administrators will receive the report and will take further action to minimize the impact to our community. For a list of available guides and documentation, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides .", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nCanvas is the institutionally supported platform for creating, sharing and managing course materials and is an important tool for SFU\u2019s academic activities. SFU IT Services (ITS) is aware that many Canvas users have recently been experiencing disruptions. ITS remains committed to providing comprehensive support for teaching, learning and work across the university and thanks the community for their patience during this time.", "DETAILS\n\nWe recognize that technological disruptions during final assignments and exams can be stressful and challenging. Faculty and instructors are aware of the issues and are implementing accommodations to support assessment completion. Tips for Students on Managing Canvas Disruptions During Exams Keep instructor or TA contact information accessible so you can quickly reach out if you experience issues during the exam. Be sure to connect with your instructor or TA prior to any exam or assignment deadline to discuss any concerns you may have and ensure you know what to do in case of a disruption. For longer responses, write your answers in a word document and then paste them into Canvas when complete. This can prevent the loss of your responses if you lose access to the exam. Access the exam early to troubleshoot any potential issues. Use a wired connection if possible or ensure a stable WiFi connection. Close unnecessary applications and browser tabs to reduce strain on your system. Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change your membership approach on your team from group-managed to manually-managed team, vice-versa, or group synced to your team membership. Change from Group-managed to Manually-managed Change from Manually-managed to Group-managed", "WHICH MEMBERSHIP APPROACH SHOULD I USE?\n\nFor information on which membership approach you should use for your Team, see Manually- & Group-managed Teams . Note : On SFU's Microsoft Teams Request App, you can only edit teams that you have originally requested. Having 'owner' role has no impact. If you need to switch the 'original requestor' to another individual, send a support ticket to IT Service Desk . Change from Group-managed to Manually-managed", "To change your membership approach on your team:\n\nStep 1", ". Go to SFU's Microsoft Teams Request App:\n\nteamrequest.its.sfu.ca/request.cgi Step 2 . Select Edit Existing Team to expand the list of teams you own. Step 3 . Search and select the team you wish to change. Step 4 . Select Populate the Team manually, directly in SFU Teams . Then, select Submit to apply the change. Note : Changes may take up to two hours to be applied. With manually-managed Team, adding or removing members will be done directly on the Microsoft Teams application. Change from Manually-managed to Group-managed", "To change your membership approach on your team:\n\nStep 1", ". Go to SFU's Microsoft Teams Request App:\n\nteamrequest.its.sfu.ca/request.cgi Step 2 . Select Edit Existing Team to expand the list of teams you own. Step 3 . Search and select the team you wish to change. Step 4 . Select Populate the Team automatically from an SFU Group(s) . Enter a security group to populate your team membership with. Then, select Submit to apply the change. Note : Changes may take up to two hours to be applied. With group-managed Team, adding or removing members will be done on SFU Groups (groups.sfu.ca) when you are given UPDATE permissions to the reference group. Note : Only Grouper Admins can create new security groups (reference groups). If you need a security group, contact your department's IT staff.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Teams", "OVERVIEW\n\nWelcome to the world of shared channels in Microsoft Teams at Simon Fraser University (SFU)! Whether you're new to Teams or looking to enhance your collaboration experience, this guide will help you navigate shared channels with ease.", "WHAT ARE SHARED CHANNELS?\n\nShared channels in MS Teams allow you to collaborate seamlessly with colleagues across different teams even if they are not direct members of the hosting team. It's like having a meeting spot where everyone can gather and share ideas, files, and conversations all in one place without needing to become team members themselves. This ensures members of your team can collaborate with others without sharing all the content in your team. How to Create a Shared Channel Creating a shared channel is a simple process. Here\u2019s how you can do it: Open Microsoft Teams and navigate to the team where you want to create the shared channel. Click on the three dots (...) next to the team's name. Select Add a channel. Name your channel and add a description if you like. Under \"Choose channel type\", select \"Shared - People you choose from your org and other orgs have access\". Finally, click Create. For more detailed instructions, view the Microsoft support article Create a shared channel in Microsoft Teams . External Collaboration Limits at SFU At SFU, shared channels are designed for internal collaboration, making it easier for departments and project teams to work together while keeping the team itself private to members. However, SFU does not have Business-to-Business (B2B) connections with other organizations that allow external users to access shared channels at this time. Tips for Using Shared Channels Shared channels offer a range of features to enhance your collaboration: Shared Channel Owner and Member Roles in Microsoft Teams Guest and Shared Channels in Microsoft Teams Manage Shared Channels in Microsoft Teams", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article tracks the state of migration from SFU Maillist to SFU Groups for SFU applications.", "DETAILS\n\nNote : The migration to Grouper has been completed as of June 2025. For more information about this transition, visit SFU Maillist Retirement - Migration Informatio. This page tracks the migration of some SFU applications from using SFU Maillist to SFU Groups. This is not an exhaustive list of SFU applications. The information on this page is provided by individual service owners. If you have questions about a specific service's plans for migrating from SFU Maillist, please contact that application's designated support contact. Service Name Status More Information / Steps Required Support / Contact Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) Done AEM team has contacted site owners with steps required to migrate from Maillists to SFU Groups AEM support Adobe Acrobat License Done The current process uses a self-subscribed maillist. It will be transitioned to my.sfu.ca using the consent feature. Adobe Acrobat license support Adobe CC License Done Adobe License support Amaint Done Departments with access to Amaint will be required to provide reference groups to maintain access ITS Identity Management group Canvas non-credit enrolments Ready* Non-credit courses can have enrolments driven by maillist memberships. Those who have maillists tied to active courses are reached out to for reference groups. Canvas support File Server (AIS-FS1) Ready* Desktop Services Guacamole Done Remote Lab Access support Lecture Recording (Mediasite) Done Those who have maillists tied to Mediasite roles are reached out to for reference groups Lecture Recording support Microsoft Teams Ready* Existing Teams must be updated with reference groups using the Teams Request page New Teams requests must provide reference groups instead of Maillists MS Teams support OnBase Done OnBase fully migrated to Grouper, no user action required Email onbase-help@sfu.ca ServiceHub (TDX) Done ServiceHub team has contacted TDX maillist managers with steps required to migrate from Maillist to SFU Groups ServiceHub support SFU Cloud", "DETAILS\n\nNew Teams requests must provide reference groups instead of Maillists MS Teams support OnBase Done OnBase fully migrated to Grouper, no user action required Email onbase-help@sfu.ca ServiceHub (TDX) Done ServiceHub team has contacted TDX maillist managers with steps required to migrate from Maillist to SFU Groups ServiceHub support SFU Cloud Done SFU Cloud support SFU GitHub Ready* Existing maillist-backed GitHub Organizations must be updated with reference groups for organization users and admins. New GitHub Organization requests must provide reference groups for organization users and admins. Open a ticket to update existing organizations Done Printing support SFU SharePoint Ready* Migration of SFU SharePoint (sharepoint.sfu.ca) sites from Maillist to Grouper is by request. Please open a ticket with the SharePoint support team for assistance. SharePoint support Tableau Done Tableau support WebDAV Ready* WebDAV servers that had activity since 2024 were reached out to. WebDAV support", "VPN\n\nDone The VPN access control list has been migrated to Grouper. No end-user action is required. VPN support Zoom Done Zoom support *Service is now using Grouper groups; currently waiting for end users to migrate their maillists to groups.", "WANT TO ADD OR UPDATE A SERVICE?\n\nIf you are a service owner and would like to have your application added to this page, or information updated, send us a request using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Articles (3) Differences between SFU Groups and SFU Maillist This article describes the feature differences between SFU Groups and SFU Maillist. SFU Groups - FAQs This article lists the frequently asked questions for SFU Groups. SFU Maillist Retirement - Migration Information This article describes what will happen during the SFU Maillist retirement and how to migrate your maillists. Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes what you need to know about security groups (or reference groups) on SFU Groups and how to request a group. What is a Security Group? Who can Request a Security Group? How to Request a Security Group What is a Security Group? Security groups (or reference groups) are used for security or access control to services or resources. Security groups contain a list of SFU members and can be synced to multiple services or resources to provide access, assign privileges or provision licensing. The group manager(s) can then add or remove SFU members as needed, which will then sync to provision (or de-provision) access to connected services or resources. Here are some examples of security groups that can be used with: Creating group-managed teams on Microsoft Teams Visit restricted websites on Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) Access to printers and labs Auto-populated Exchange Distribution Groups Some security groups may be called reference groups if they are managed by departments or staff. This is to distinguish from policy groups (also security groups) which are managed by IT service managers and IT admins.", "GROUP REVIEWS\n\nAll security groups are required to be periodically reviewed to certify that their membership is accurate, up-to-date and that the group is still needed or in use on SFU Groups. Please note by managing a security group, you'll be responsible for its periodic reviews.", "REMINDER\n\nSecurity Groups can only contain SFU members . If you require an external user to access SFU resources, such as a vendor or contractor, they will need an SFU Sponsored Account . Who can request a Security Group? Only staff and faculty may request security groups if needed for a service or resource. For example, if you wish to use a group-managed Teams , it will ask for a reference group (a type of security group). Requests for security groups are reviewed and created by IT Services or your departmental IT staff. How to request a Security Group", "STEP 1\n\nReach out to your dedicated Grouper IT Admin to request a security group.", "For academic staff or faculty:\n\nContact your department's IT support staff to request a security group.", "For administrative staff:\n\nContact your IT support staff to request a security group. If you are unsure, contact the IT Service Desk .", "STEP 2\n\nOnce your security group has been created and you've been given manager permissions, you can find your new security group on SFU Groups under Manage your Groups . When services or resources are asking for a security group (or reference group), provide the entire group name in blue. For example, ref:dept:its:dept:demo-members is the group name for the security group in the screenshot above.", "STEP 3 (OPTIONAL)\n\nYou may want to consider automated or auto-populated membership for your security groups. For example, you may want your security group to include members from a particular department, unit, course, academic plan, affiliation, or other system of record information. This method of membership allows for automatic onboarding or offboarding for anyone who changes roles without manual adjustments on your security groups. For more information or if you are interested, contact your IT support staff who created the security group on your behalf.", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Infrastructure Network and Connectivity Management Virtual Private Network (VPN)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to set up the FortiClient app on an Apple computer (macOS) to connect to SFU VPN: Downloading FortiClient VPN Installing FortiClient VPN Setting up the VPN connection Connecting to SFU VPN Troubleshooting connection issues Other Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) SFU managed devices should already have the FortiClient app installed, but you may need to set up the connection (step 3). System Requirements As of February 24, 2025, only FortiClient VPN version 7.2.x or higher is compatible with SFU VPN. In addition to meeting the account and security requirements outlined in Getting started with SFU VPN", ", your computer must meet the following system requirements:\n\nmacOS 12.0 or newer Intel or M-series processors", "1 GB RAM\n\n1 GB free hard disk space For a complete list of system requirements, see FortiClient Administration Guide (7.2.0) .", "DETAILS\n\n1. Downloading FortiClient VPN Download VPN for macOS As of this article, the latest version available is 7.4.2. The FortClient VPN app can also be found on the FortiClient Product Downloads website . 2. Installing FortiClient VPN Launch the installer ( FortiClientVPN_OnlineInstaller.dmg ) from the downloaded location. Run the installer ( FortiClientInstaller.app ). Your computer may ask you to confirm if you want to open an app downloaded from the Internet. Select Open to continue. The installer will begin downloading the application. Once the download is complete, select Install to continue. Select Continue on the Introduction and License pages, then agree to the terms by selecting Agree. Select Continue and then Install on the Destination Select and Installation Type pages. FortiClient will ask to add a VPN configuration. Select Allow . Select Close to exit the installer. Additional Configuration If you're using macOS 15.0 or newer, you will need to grant FortiClient additional permissions before it can run successfully on your computer: Open the System Settings app. Select General . Open Login Item & Extensions . Scroll down the Extensions section and select the \"i\" in Network Extensions. Toggle on the FortiTray.app to grant it access. Then click Done . 3. Setting up the VPN connection Launch the FortiClient VPN app (Finder > Applications > FortiClient.app, or select the FortiClient app icon > Open FortiClient console). Check \" I acknowledge... \" and then click I accept . Then select Configure VPN and configure the connection as follows. Then click Save . SFU VPN Configuration VPN Type", "SSL-VPN\n\nConnection Name", "SFU VPN\n\nRemote Gateway vpn.its.sfu.ca Customize Port Checked Port Number 10443 Client Certificate None 4. Connecting to SFU VPN Enter your SFU Computing ID and password then select Connect . Open your MFA device (and app) enter your SFU MFA code and select", "OK\n\n. If the connection is successful, you'll see a confirmation screen with the VPN connection details: To close your VPN connection, select Disconnect . Make sure to connect to the VPN every time you need it. The VPN will disconnect if your computer is idle or sleeps and does not re-connect automatically. Troubleshooting If you're still unable to connect to SFU VPN, see Troubleshooting SFU VPN connection issues for help before submitting a ticket. Other FAQS 1. What version is my FortiClient app? To determine the version number of FortiClient VPN installed on your computer: Open the FortiClient VPN app Select 'i' on top right corner. Version number is located at the top: 2. How do i view and update my forticlient connection settings? If you need to update the connection settings, select the menu then select Edit the connection", ":\n\n3. How do I update the app? To update the app, download the latest installer and complete steps 1 through 3. 4. How do I uninstall the FortiClient app? In the Applications folder, run the FortiClientUninstaller.app and follow the instructions on-screen to complete the uninstall. Related Articles (1) Getting Started with SFU VPN Explore how to get started and connect using SFU VPN. Related Services / Offerings (1) Virtual Private Network (VPN) SFU VPN is a way for faculty, staff and graduate students to remotely connect to SFU's internal network using a secure (encrypted) and private connection. SFU VPN provides access to SFU systems that are typically inaccessible while working remotely.", "Overview This article describes common reasons for connection issues with SFU VPN and how to resolve them. As of February 24, 2025, only FortiClient VPN version 7.2.x or higher is compatible with SFU VPN. See Getting Started with SFU VPN for instructions to download the latest version and how to install it. Details Preliminary troubleshooting steps If your current role still grants you access to SFU VPN", ", you can try the following for a quick resolution:\n\nCheck that your VPN connection settings haven't changed and are set correctly:", "Gateway:\n\nvpn.its.sfu.ca", "Customized port:\n\nchecked and set to ' 10443 '", "Windows:\n\nclose the app by clicking 'X'. Then re-open and try to connect.", "Mac:\n\nQuit the FortiClient app from the dock, or select the FortiClient icon from the menu bar and select Shutdown FortiClient.", "Then re-open and try to connect.\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b:\n\nRestart your computer. Then open FortiClient and re-connect. Otherwise, see below for common causes for connection errors and how to resolve them. Error message and resolutions Issue or error message Possible Cause and Solution Credential or SSLVPN configuration is wrong. (-7200) (on Windows) Login failed. Permission denied (on Mac) You may receive the following error message for one or more reasons: Your current role doesn't grant you access to SFU VPN access list. Only certain roles have immediate access to SFU VPN. \u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b You're not enrolled in SFU MFA yet. You'll need enroll in", "SFU MFA\n\nto have continued access to your account. You may be entering an incorrect password. You should verify or reset your password . You may be entering an incorrect MFA code. Verify your MFA code or delete and re-add your MFA device . Unable to establish the VPN connection. The VPN server may be unreachable. (Windows) Network error. Can not connect to VPN server. (Mac) An incorrect VPN configuration is preventing the connection from working. Make sure VPN connection settings are set as follows:", "Gateway:\n\nvpn.its.sfu.ca", "Customized port:\n\nchecked and set to ' 10443 ' Network error. The request timed out. (Mac) An incorrect VPN configuration is preventing the connection from working. Make sure VPN connection settings are set as follows:", "Gateway:\n\nvpn.its.sfu.ca", "Customized port:\n\nchecked and set to ' 10443 ' VPN connects successfully, but browser is unable to reach any (SFU) website Another VPN or anti-virus may be open. These programs may interfere with network traffic and prevent FortiClient from working properly. Quit/close the other VPN app or anti-virus. Then try to re-connect. Other network settings, such as proxy server, or DNS, may prevent traffic from reaching its intended destination. If possible, reset network settings to default. Other connection issues Some networks don't allow for a VPN to be connected (ex. public Wi-Fi). Switch to another Wi-Fi network or use your phone as a hotspot. As of February 24, 2025, only FortiClient VPN version 7.2.x or higher is compatible with SFU VPN. Install the latest version of the FortiClient VPN app and re-configure it. If you're still having difficulty connecting to SFU VPN, please contact the Service Desk for help: Submit a ticket Overview This article describes common reasons for connection issues with SFU VPN and how to resolve them. As of February 24, 2025, only FortiClient VPN version 7.2.x or higher is compatible with SFU VPN. See Getting Started with SFU VPN for instructions to download the latest version and how to install it. Getting Started with SFU VPN", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams What is a Microsoft 365 group When does a Microsoft 365 group expire? How do I know if my Microsoft 365 group is about to expire? How do I renew a Team (and Microsoft 365 group)? What keeps a Team/Microsoft 365 group active? Why does SFU expire Microsoft 365 groups? What's the difference between a group expiring and archiving a team? What is a Microsoft 365 group? A Microsoft 365 group is what powers the membership of many Microsoft 365 apps and services. For example, when you request a team in MS Teams you're actually creating a Microsoft 365 group in the background. This core group helps you manage the membership, access and collaboration between other Microsoft 365 services so you can focus on a single consistent experience with your team; rather than managing access to multiple Microsoft services. For example, when you create a new team in MS Teams a Microsoft 365 group is created that: Sets the security and access rules for the initial team owner, who can then manage additional owners/members. Creates and coordinates the online storage space the group will use to store documents and content. Creates and coordinates the underlying communication space so the group can chat with each other. Maintains the membership to other Microsoft 365 apps the team may need (such as Planner...etc). When does a Microsoft 365 group expire? Unless you manually delete a team/Microsoft 365 group, it will automatically expire 2-years after the date of last activity. After a group is deleted (either due to inactivity or someone chooses to delete it) it will a go into 30-day grace period where it can be restored by IT Services upon request. However, after the grace period ends the group will be permanently deleted and any", "of last activity. After a group is deleted (either due to inactivity or someone chooses to delete it) it will a go into 30-day grace period where it can be restored by IT Services upon request. However, after the grace period ends the group will be permanently deleted and any documents or content associated with the group will be lost. How do I know if my Microsoft 365 group is about to expire? Anyone with an ownership role (e.g. Team Owner) in the group will be notified 30, 15, and 1 day before their group is about to expire. This notification will be sent to the SFU email address of group owners. Additionally, a reminder will be sent from the activity feed on MS Teams. You can also check the expiration date of your group in MS Teams. For more information see Team Expiration and Renewal . Security Tip: Expiration notices will be sent from an email address that ends in microsoft.com . Be cautious of impostor emails. How do I renew a Team (and Microsoft 365 group)? If you are an owner of a team (Microsoft 365 group), you can renew it by following the instructions in the notification email. Additionally, see Renew a team in Microsoft Teams for information on how to renew a team in the MS Teams app directly. What keeps a Team/Microsoft 365 group active? While lots of Microsoft apps use groups, any of the following activity will keep a Team/Microsoft 365 group in an active state: SharePoint - View, edit, download, move, share, or upload files. (Viewing a SharePoint page doesn't count as an action for automatic renewal.) Outlook - Join or edit group, read or write group message from the group, and like a message (Outlook on the web). Teams - Visit a", "active state: SharePoint - View, edit, download, move, share, or upload files. (Viewing a SharePoint page doesn't count as an action for automatic renewal.) Outlook - Join or edit group, read or write group message from the group, and like a message (Outlook on the web). Teams - Visit a teams channel or view, edit, download, move, share, or upload files related to the team. Forms - View, create, or edit forms, or submit a response to a form. Why does SFU expire Microsoft 365 groups? As part of SFU's Data Security Standards , expiring inactive Microsoft 365 groups helps our community responsibly work with and dispose of data that is no longer in use. In addition, expiring groups helps teams focus in active collaboration spaces rather than inheriting spaces that have been abandoned. What's the difference between a group expiring and archiving a team? Archiving a group will put it's content into a read-only state while group expiration will delete the group overall. For more details on archiving a team, see Archive or Restore a Team in Microsoft Teams . Related Articles (2) Archive or restore an archived team This article describes how to archive or restore an archive team on Microsoft Teams. Microsoft Teams - How-to Guides for Team Owners This article lists the how-to guides, training and resources on using Microsoft Teams for Team Owners.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Copilot As with any new technology, how you interact with it will determine what you get out of it. While a generative AI is designed to be conversational you can design your questions ( prompts ) to influence responses. How you craft your prompts to draw out specific behaviours is referred to as prompting engineering .", "What's included:\n\nGetting Started Additional Techniques for Better Prompts Getting Started A well-crafted prompt acts like a clear set of instructions\u2014it helps the AI understand not just what you want, but how you want it delivered. To make your interactions more effective and efficient, great starter prompts typically include four key elements: Your goal (i.e., what you want the AI assistant to accomplish) Your context (i.e., extra details that will help the AI assistant understand your question) Your sources (i.e., additional content that the AI assistant can reference to help respond) Your expectations (i.e., the essentials you'd like included in the respose) Let's take a look at an example of goal, context, sources, and expectations (", "GCSE\n\n) in action. Goal Context Source Expectations Generate a short summary and 3-5 bullet points to prepare me for a meeting with project sponsors. Focus on the main points from this document Project-Summary.docx. Use simple language so I can get up to speed quickly. Include project costs, timelines, and scope in the bullet points. Explore how it's done on", "Microsoft Support:\n\nTips and Tricks for Prompts in Copilot Iterate and Regenerate Great responses often emerge through refining your questions. Don\u2019t settle for the first result\u2014use iteration to improve clarity, tone, and completeness.", "Tips:\n\nUse feedback loops: Tell Copilot what worked and what didn\u2019t. Ask for variations: \u201cGive me three alternative versions,\u201d or \u201cMake it more concise.\u201d Prompt Engineering Techniques for Better Prompts Once you've got the foundational elements of a good prompt\u2014goal, context, sources, and expectations (", "GCSE\n\n)\u2014you can weave in more advanced techniques to enhance your interactions with AI tools. Think of these as additional approaches to help guide the assistant with greater precision, whether you're drafting communications, analyzing data, solving problems, or generating creative content. Role Based Prompting Giving Copilot a role helps add context so it can tailor responses to your needs. This is commonly used when you need to change the default behaviour of how Copilot responds. For example, responding in a specific communication style (\" Speak like Shakespeare \") or acting in a tailored way (\" Explain this like a math tutor for a 10 year old \").", "Tips:\n\nAssign a role: \u201cAct as a project manager,\u201d \u201cYou\u2019re a career coach,\u201d etc. Provide background: Mention the audience, purpose, or scenario. Examples Act as a university administrative coordinator preparing a communication for students about upcoming registration deadlines from https://www.sfu.ca/students/deadlines . Make the tone clear, professional, and supportive. Act as a professor designing a syllabus for an introductory psychology course based on the material from my_class.docx. Include learning objectives, weekly topics, and assessment methods. Act as a teaching assistant preparing a study guide for undergraduate students in a biology course based on topics from this PowerPoint presentation week4.pptx. Include key concepts, sample questions, and tips for exam preparation. Providing Examples (Few-Shot Prompting) Another technique is showing examples that can help Copilot learn the pattern or style you want. This is often used when you need Copilot to format results in a specific way. For example, matching the tone of previous emails or creating tables with specific column headers.", "Tips:\n\nInclude 1\u20133 examples of the desired output. Keep examples short and consistent. Use this technique for formatting, tone, or structure. Examples I'm trying to write a reminder email to students about upcoming tuition deadlines posted at https://www.sfu.ca/students/deadlines", ". Here's an example I have so far:\n\n\u201cHi everyone, Just a quick reminder that Fall tuition payments are due by September 15. Please check your student portal for details. Let us know if you have any questions!\u201d Help we write a similar reminder about when grades will be posted. Include links to https://www.sfu.ca/students/deadlines for more information. I'm writing concise feedback on student essays for a french studies course in a constructive and encouraging tone. Here are a few examples: \u201c Excellent travail de connexion entre la th\u00e9orie et la pratique - votre analyse du comportement social \u00e9tait perspicace. \u201d \u201c Envisagez d'\u00e9largir votre discussion sur les influences culturelles pour renforcer votre argument. \u201d Can you help me write feedback for the following paper student_paper.docx. I need to phrase my feedback in a way that encourages them to keep exploring digital learning trends in 1-2 sentences. Help me create study notes for my psychology exam. Use the format below. Examples:", "Topic:\n\nClassical Conditioning", "Key Concept:\n\nLearning through association", "Example:\n\nPavlov\u2019s dogs salivating at the sound of a bell", "Important Terms:\n\nUnconditioned stimulus, conditioned response", "Topic:\n\nOperant Conditioning", "Key Concept:\n\nBehavior shaped by rewards and punishments", "Example:\n\nA student receives praise for completing homework", "Important Terms:\n\nReinforcement, punishment, behavior modification Now create study notes for the topic \u201cCognitive Dissonance.\u201d based on the material from week4slides.pptx. Chain-of-Thought (CoT) Prompting Chain-of-Thought prompting encourages Copilot to reason step-by-step, improving accuracy and depth. This is often used when you need Copilot to check it's assumptions by breaking down complex ideas, or providing transparency when it responses.", "Tips:\n\nAsk Copilot to explain its reasoning. Break complex tasks into smaller steps. Use phrases like \u201cLet\u2019s think step by step\u201d or \u201cFirst, identify\u2026\u201d Examples Let\u2019s think step by step: How can we improve employee engagement in a hybrid work environment? Explain how the peer review process works in academic publishing. First, outline the key stages, then describe the role of reviewers and editors. I\u2019m preparing a training session for new faculty on inclusive teaching practices. Let\u2019s break this into steps: first, define inclusive teaching; second, list common challenges; third, suggest practical strategies. Related Articles (5) Additional Learning Resources for Copilot Resources and learning paths that can help you get started with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Copilot Agents Explore how to use Copilot Agents to expand and tailor your experience within Microsoft Copilot. Copilot Chat Learn about Copilot Chat, a generative AI assistant on the Microsoft 365 platform that is available to everyone at SFU. Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn more about Microsoft 365 Copilot (a personalized productivity AI assistant) at SFU. Privacy and Security Guidance for using Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn about privacy and security guidance for using Copilot at SFU.", "Infrastructure Network and Connectivity Management Wireless Connectivity (Wi-Fi) Overview", "This article describes how to:\n\nRemove a Wi-Fi profile on iPhone, iPad, Mac Remove a cached 802.1X certificate from Mac Forget a wireless network on an Android device and Windows computer These are initial troubleshooting steps if you're having difficulty connecting to the SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks with your device. Check if your device has a Wi-Fi profile installed iPhone/iPad Mac Remove a Wi-Fi profile from your device iPhone/iPad Mac Forget a network from your device Windows iPhone/iPad/Mac Reconnect to SFU networks Get help from IT Services 1. Check if your device has a Wi-Fi profile installed For iPhone, iPad, or Mac, a profile is installed when you use the Cloudpath installer (deprecated) to connect to the SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks. An invalid profile or expired certificate will prevent your device from connecting successfully. If you don't have a Wi-Fi profile installed on your device, skip to the Forget a Network section. iPhone/iPad Open Settings General > VPN & Device Management . Look for a profile called SFU Wi-Fi . Mac Click the Apple menu and select System Settings . Search for Profiles, or go to General > Device Management. Look for a profile called SFU Wi-Fi . 2. Remove a Wi-Fi profile from your device iPhone/iPad Open Settings General > VPN & Device Management . Look for a profile called SFU Wi-Fi . Tap the profile and select Remove Profile . If prompted, enter the device passcode. Mac Click the Apple menu and select System Settings . Search for Profiles, or go to General > Device Management. Look for a profile called SFU Wi-Fi . Click the minus (-) button. Enter your Mac\u2019s administrator password if prompted. 3. Forget a network from your device For devices that don't have a Wi-Fi profile, you can forget the network and then try re-connecting as an initial", "This article describes how to:\n\n> Device Management. Look for a profile called SFU Wi-Fi . Click the minus (-) button. Enter your Mac\u2019s administrator password if prompted. 3. Forget a network from your device For devices that don't have a Wi-Fi profile, you can forget the network and then try re-connecting as an initial troubleshooting step: Windows 10/11 Press Win + I to open Settings . Click Network & Internet > Wi-Fi. Click Manage known networks . Select the", "network (if present):\n\nClick Forget . Repeat for eduroam iPhone/iPad/Mac See How to forget a Wi-Fi network on iPhone, iPad, or Mac from Apple. Since Android settings differ from manufacturer to manufacturer, please refer to your corresponding manufacturer's help guides for assistance. For instructions for Samsung devices, see How to forget a network on Samsung Mobile Device? from Samsung. 4. Re-connect to SFU networks Once you've removed the Wi-Fi profile or forgotten the network from your device, follow Connecting to Wireless Networks Using Automatic Setup (all devices) for instructions to re-connect your device. 5. Get help from IT Services If you're still having difficulty connecting to Wi-Fi, please visit one of our IT Service Centres", "Burnaby:\n\nP9300 or WMC 2262", "If you have any other questions, please contact us:\n\nSubmit a Ticket Related Articles (1) Connecting to Wireless Networks Using Automatic Setup (all devices) Learn how to connect to wireless networks on campus using the automatic setup process. Related Services / Offerings (1) Wireless Connectivity (Wi-Fi) Provide wireless (Wi-Fi) connection to access campus internet services.", "Infrastructure Network and Connectivity Management Virtual Private Network (VPN)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to set up the FortiClient app on a Windows computer to connect to SFU VPN: Downloading FortiClient VPN Installing FortiClient VPN Setting up the VPN connection Connecting to SFU VPN Troubleshooting connection issues Other Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) SFU managed devices should already have the FortiClient app installed, but you may need to set up the connection (step 3). System Requirements As of February 24, 2025, only FortiClient VPN version 7.2.x or higher is compatible with SFU VPN. In addition to meeting the account and security requirements outlined in Getting started with SFU VPN", ", your computer must meet the following system requirements:\n\nWindows 10 or 11 (64 bit) Intel processor or equivalent (ARM-based not supported)", "2 GB RAM\n\n1 GB free hard disk space For a complete list of system requirements, see FortiClient Administration Guide (7.2.0) .", "DETAILS\n\n1. Downloading FortiClient VPN Download VPN for Windows As of this article, the latest version available is 7.4.2. The FortClient VPN app can also be found on the FortiClient Product Downloads website . 2. Installing FortiClient VPN Launch the installer ( FortiClientVPNOnlineInstaller.exe ) from the downloaded location. Allow it to make changes to your computer to proceed. Accept the License Agreement then select Next . Select Install. The setup wizard will begin installing FortiClient VPN on your device. Select Finish to exit the installer. 3. Setting up the VPN connection Launch the FortiClient VPN app (double click the FortiClient VPN shortcut on your desktop, or select it from your system tray > Open FortiClient console). Check \" I acknowledge... \" box and then click I accept . Select Configure VPN and configure the connection as follows. Then click Save . SFU VPN Configuration VPN Type", "SSL-VPN\n\nConnection Name", "SFU VPN\n\nRemote Gateway vpn.its.sfu.ca Customize Port Checked Port Number 10443 Client Certificate None 4. Connecting to SFU VPN Enter your SFU Computing ID and password then select Connect . Enter your MFA code in the Answer field. Then select", "OK\n\n. If the connection is successful, you'll see a confirmation screen with the VPN connection details: To close your VPN connection, select Disconnect . Make sure to connect to the VPN every time you need it. The VPN will disconnect if your computer is idle or sleeps and does not re-connect automatically. Troubleshooting If you're still unable to connect to SFU VPN, see Troubleshooting SFU VPN connection issues for help before submitting a ticket. Other FAQS 1. What version is my FortiClient app? To determine the version number of FortiClient VPN installed on your computer: Open the FortiClient VPN app Select 'i' on top right corner. Version number is located at the top: 2. How do I view and edit my VPN connection settings? If you need to update the connection settings, select the menu then select Edit the connection", ":\n\n3. How do I update my FortiClient app? To update the FortiClient app, first uninstall it, then complete steps 1 through 3. 4. How do I uninstall the FortiClient app? Re-run the installer and select Remove", ":\n\nRelated Articles (1) Getting Started with SFU VPN Explore how to get started and connect using SFU VPN. Related Services / Offerings (1) Virtual Private Network (VPN) SFU VPN is a way for faculty, staff and graduate students to remotely connect to SFU's internal network using a secure (encrypted) and private connection. SFU VPN provides access to SFU systems that are typically inaccessible while working remotely.", "Infrastructure Network and Connectivity Management Virtual Private Network (VPN)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to set up the FortiClient app on a Linux computer to connect to SFU VPN: Downloading FortiClient VPN Installing FortiClient VPN Setting up the VPN connection Connecting to SFU VPN Troubleshooting connection issues Other Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) SFU managed devices should already have the FortiClient app installed, but you may need to set up the connection (step 3). System Requirements As of February 24, 2025, only FortiClient VPN version 7.2.x or higher is compatible with SFU VPN. In addition to meeting the account and security requirements outlined in Getting started with SFU VPN", ", your computer must meet the following system requirements:\n\nUbuntu 18.04 or newer; Debian 11 or newer, Red Hat 7.4 or newer; CentOS Stream 8, 7.4 or newer; Fedora 36 and later (with KDE or GNOME desktop environments) Intel processor or equivalent", "512 MB RAM\n\n600 MB free hard disk space For a complete list of system requirements, see FortiClient 7.2.0 Administrative Guide .", "DETAILS\n\n1. Downloading FortiClient VPN Download VPN for Linux (.rpm) Download VPN for Linux (.deb) Important Instructions for Ubuntu 24.04+ - Additional packages required As of this article, the latest version available is 7.4.2. The latest of FortClient VPN app can also be found on the FortiClient Product Downloads website . 2. Installing FortiClient VPN Right click on the downloaded file and then click Open with Software Install . Select Install . 3. Setting up the VPN connection Click on Show Application and open FortiClient. Check \" I acknowledge... \" box and then click I accept . Select Configure VPN and configure the connection as follows. Then click Save . SFU VPN Configuration VPN Type", "SSL-VPN\n\nConnection Name", "SFU VPN\n\nRemote Gateway vpn.its.sfu.ca Customize Port Checked Port Number 10443 Client Certificate None 4. Connecting to SFU VPN Enter your SFU Computing ID and password then select Connect . Enter your MFA code in the Answer field. Then select", "OK\n\n. If the connection is successful, you'll see a confirmation screen with the VPN connection details: To close your VPN connection, select Disconnect . Make sure to connect to the VPN every time you need it. The VPN will disconnect if your computer is idle or sleeps and does not re-connect automatically. Troubleshooting If you're still unable to connect to SFU VPN, see Troubleshooting SFU VPN connection issues for help before submitting a ticket. Other FAQS 1. What version is my FortiClient app? To determine the version number of FortiClient VPN installed on your computer: Open the FortiClient app Select 'i' on top right corner. Version number is located at the top: 2. How do I view and edit my VPN connection settings? To update the FortiClient app, first uninstall it, then re-install and re-configure as described previously. Related Articles (1) Getting Started with SFU VPN Explore how to get started and connect using SFU VPN. Related Services / Offerings (1) Virtual Private Network (VPN) SFU VPN is a way for faculty, staff and graduate students to remotely connect to SFU's internal network using a secure (encrypted) and private connection. SFU VPN provides access to SFU systems that are typically inaccessible while working remotely.", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management", "TRANSITIONING TO CANVAS CLOUD ONLINE WORKSHOP\n\nCenter for Educational Excellence (CEE) is offering online workshops to the SFU teaching community to explore new features in Canvas Cloud and its overall structure and interface. See CEE\u2019s workshop and events page for available dates.", "Canvas On-Premise (current):\n\ncanvas.sfu.ca", "Canvas Cloud (new):\n\ncanvas-new.sfu.ca . Note : The Canvas Cloud web link is only temporary during this transition. More details here .", "OVERVIEW\n\nSFU is transitioning from a locally hosted (on-premise) version of Canvas to a cloud-based version (Canvas Cloud). This means that instead of being managed on SFU\u2019s own servers, Canvas will now be hosted on Instructure\u2019s cloud platform. Starting in Spring 2026, all courses at SFU will be hosted on the new Canvas Cloud platform, which is based in Canada. Why is this happening? Who is affected? What do instructors need to do? How will this impact students? How will I access Canvas Cloud? Resources & Links FAQs", "WHY IS THIS HAPPENING?\n\nSFU currently uses an on-premise version of Canvas that is becoming obsolete. As a result, the on-premise version is facing growing performance challenges, as well as falling behind in features and functionality compared to the vendor-supported Canvas Cloud. Transitioning to Canvas Cloud will provide a more reliable platform and access to new tools and capabilities, including enhanced quiz functionality, annotation features in SpeedGrader, and advanced analytics. This change aligns with What\u2019s Next: The SFU Strategy and reflects SFU IT Services\u2019 commitment to leveraging technology to enhance the university experience for students, instructors and staff.", "WHO IS AFFECTED?\n\nAnyone who uses Canvas at SFU. For example, students, instructors, lifelong learners and staff.", "For instructors teaching courses in Spring 2026:\n\nAttend sessions on the new platform offered by the Centre for Educational Excellence (CEE) . If required, migrate course content from the on-premise Canvas to Canvas Cloud using IT Services\u2019 course migration tool . Build, test and troubleshoot your Spring 2026 course in Canvas Cloud . Scenario 1: I am building a new course for Spring 2026 If you are teaching a course in Spring 2026 and plan to build your course from scratch, you can start building your course in Canvas Cloud now. To access Canvas Cloud, visit canvas-new.sfu.ca . Scenario 2: I want to reuse content from a previous course for Spring 2026 If you are teaching a course in Spring 2026 and wish to use content from a previous course taught in the on-premise version of Canvas, you can migrate that course content to the new Canvas Cloud platform. IT Services has a course migration tool to support this process, along with guides to support its use: How to migrate a Credit Course .", "For instructors teaching courses in a semester after spring 2026:\n\nInstructors who are not teaching in spring 2026 do not need to migrate their courses at this time and will retain access to their courses. The current Canvas platform will eventually be retired, but the retirement date has not yet been determined. Once a date is set, we will communicate it to all instructors well in advance.", "HOW TO MIGRATE A CREDIT COURSE\n\nCourses tied to a degree or certificate academic program.", "HOW TO MIGRATE A NON-ACADEMIC COURSE\n\nCourses that generally facilitate training, orientation or other activities. Note : Instructors teaching in Spring 2026 can find their credit course shell on the Canvas Cloud Dashboard starting September 2025. Credit course shells will now appear automatically on their Canvas Cloud Dashboard once assigned in goSFU \u2014 instructors don\u2019t need to request one using the 'Start a New Course' tool. Students will be automatically added at the start of Spring 2026. For details, see Changes to Credit Course Shell Creation .", "HOW WILL THIS IMPACT STUDENTS?\n\nStudents will access and navigate Canvas Cloud much like the on-premise version of Canvas, with a modernized interface and enhanced user experience. This change will allow them to experience a more innovative and reliable platform. Students who wish to retain customizations to their profile will need to manually re-configure them. This includes personal files, biography information, profile photo, inbox messages, ePortfolio, notification settings and any other profile customizations.", "Note:\n\nStarting January 2026, canvas.sfu.ca will be directed to Canvas Cloud. The web link, canvas-new.sfu.ca is only temporary during this transition.", "COURSE MIGRATION TOOL\n\nmigrate.its.sfu.ca", "HOW TO GUIDES\n\nHow to migrate a Credit Course How to migrate a Non-Academic Course How to migrate Users to another Course", "CANVAS CLOUD & CHANGES\n\nCanvas Differences between On-premise and Cloud Changes to Credit Course Shell Creation Storage in Canvas Cloud LTI Installation in Canvas Cloud (coming soon) FAQs", "MIGRATION AND TIMELINE\n\nWhen is the transition to Canvas Cloud happening? Starting in Spring 2026, all courses will be delivered through Canvas Cloud and canvas.sfu.ca will be directed to Canvas Cloud. Instructors can begin building or migrating courses to the new Canvas Cloud platform in September 2025. A small group of volunteer instructors will have early access to Canvas Cloud for testing and trial purposes. If I am not teaching in Spring 2026 do I still need to move my courses from the current version of Canvas to the new cloud version by January? We recommend that instructors move as many courses as they wish to keep to Canvas Cloud by January 2026. However, if you\u2019re unable to migrate all your courses by that date, please note that you will not lose access to your remaining courses. The current Canvas platform will eventually be retired, but the retirement date has not yet been determined. Once a date is set, we will communicate it to all instructors well in advance. Reminder that after January 2026, you can continue to access courses on the current platform using the following link: canvas-old.sfu.ca (accessible after January 2026) Which of my past courses will be migrated to Canvas Cloud? As instructors are the experts on what courses and course content they wish to maintain, they are responsible for migrating courses from the on-premise version of Canvas to Canvas Cloud. IT Services will provide a course migration tool to support this process. Visit How to Migrate a Credit Course for step-by-step instructions. If your course is non-academic, such as courses that facilitate training, orientation or other activities, visit How to migrate a Non-Academic Course for step-by-step instructions. How long will it take me to complete the course migration process? Course migrations with the course migration tool should only take", "MIGRATION AND TIMELINE\n\nfor step-by-step instructions. If your course is non-academic, such as courses that facilitate training, orientation or other activities, visit How to migrate a Non-Academic Course for step-by-step instructions. How long will it take me to complete the course migration process? Course migrations with the course migration tool should only take a few minutes to complete, subject to possible system delays during peak periods. After migration, instructors will need to review the course for any issues and make necessary adjustments. In rare cases, links to media files or third-party tools (LTIs) may not transfer correctly and may need to be manually updated. What content can\u2019t be migrated to Canvas Cloud? Will I need to rebuild anything?", "COURSE\n\nAll course materials, or content created by instructors, can be migrated using the course migration tool . In rare cases, links to media files or third-party tools (LTIs) may not transfer correctly and may need to be manually updated. Student work and enrolment-related data also cannot be migrated. Visit How to Migrate a Credit Course for a detailed list.", "Profile content cannot be migrated and will need to be rebuilt. This includes personal files, biography information, profile photo, inbox messages, ePortfolio and any other profile customizations. Can I continue to teach courses in the on-premise version of Canvas after Spring 2026? No, starting Spring 2026, all credit and non-credit courses should be taught in Canvas Cloud. Instructors can start developing their Spring 2026 courses in Canvas Cloud during the Fall 2025 semester. Exceptions to this can be some non-academic courses with unique circumstances . I am new to Canvas Cloud. Where can I go to learn more? CEE will provide sessions on new features in Canvas Cloud starting in Fall 2025. See CEE\u2019s workshop and events page for more details. Alternatively, learn more about feature differences between Canvas On-Premise and Canvas Cloud . Where do I go for help if the migration didn\u2019t work correctly? If the migration tool is not working as expected, submit a support ticket with our Canvas administrators (select ' ' as the area of help).", "NAVIGATION AND ACCESS\n\nWhat is the difference between our current, on-premise version of Canvas and Canvas Cloud?", "FOR STUDENTS\n\nAccess and navigation for Canvas Cloud will be much like the on-premise version, with only minimal differences in the user experience.", "FOR INSTRUCTORS\n\nThe new platform will offer new features, including enhanced quiz functionality, new annotation capabilities in SpeedGrader, and more advanced analytic tools. Learn more about feature differences between Canvas On-Premise and Canvas Cloud . Can I create sandbox courses on Canvas Cloud to experiment with content, tools and design? Yes, instructors can create practice course spaces, or sandbox courses, starting October 2025 on Canvas Cloud. CEE will provide support on how to create sandbox courses in Fall 2025. See CEE\u2019s workshop and events page for more details. I can\u2019t find my Spring 2026 course shell on Canvas Cloud. What do I do? Spring 2026 course shells will be automatically created and assigned to instructors. Instructors should see their course shells on the Canvas Cloud dashboard by early September. If your course does not appear on your dashboard you can request the course as you normally would using 'Start a New Course' starting October 2025 on Canvas Cloud. You may also want to check with your department\u2019s administrative staff to confirm your course assignment on goSFU.", "COURSE RETENTION AND RETIREMENT\n\nI am an instructor. what happens to past courses I have taught in the on-premise version of Canvas after we transition to Canvas Cloud? After the transition to Canvas Cloud, Canvas On-premise will be accessible using canvas-old.sfu.ca starting in January 2026. More information about the eventual retirement of the on-premise Canvas courses will be shared at a later date. I am concerned about losing access to student content in past courses. What if I want to refer to past student materials to write a reference letter, such as assessments, individual grades, assignments? Instructors who would like to keep student-generated content will need to download this content. Instructors can download the Gradebook for a record of student grades. Canvas On-premise will be accessible using canvas-old.sfu.ca starting in January 2026. More information about the eventual retirement of the on-premise Canvas courses will be shared at a later date. Canvas also provides a way to download student submissions, but this must be done for each assignment. More information on this is available through Canvas\u2019s Instructor Guide . Will content on Canvas on-premise be permanently deleted in the future? SFU's Archives and Records Management Department is currently updating the course data retention schedule based on community feedback. The updated schedule will undergo broad consultation and is likely to be completed in 2026 to ensure accuracy and completeness. Until the new schedule is finalized, nothing will be permanently deleted from Canvas Cloud or Canvas On-Prem.\u200b Will the retention period for courses in Canvas be long enough to satisfy departmental and instructor requirements? The Archives and Records Management Department (ARMD) is in the early stages of drafting a Records Retention Schedule and Disposal Authority (RRSDA) and anticipates broader stakeholder consultation on this RRSDA in 2026. At this time, no changes to retention practices are being implemented.", "COURSE RETENTION AND RETIREMENT\n\nenough to satisfy departmental and instructor requirements? The Archives and Records Management Department (ARMD) is in the early stages of drafting a Records Retention Schedule and Disposal Authority (RRSDA) and anticipates broader stakeholder consultation on this RRSDA in 2026. At this time, no changes to retention practices are being implemented. RRSDAs are drafted and approved under the authority of I 10.01 Archives, Recorded Information Management, & Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy . As with all RRSDAS, ARMD consults with key stakeholders to ensure that records retention periods reflect the administrative, fiscal, and/or legal value of the information, the historic or archival value of the information while balancing the privacy rights of information subjects, and the cost associated with maintaining the information over-time. Information stored in Canvas (regardless of where it is hosted - Cloud or on-premises) includes the intellectual property of instructors as well as the personal information of students. The RRSDA will consider all factors and establish a retention period that is long enough to satisfy departmental/university needs (such as ensuring information is available for accreditation processes, academic integrity, student performance monitoring programs, etc.), instructor needs (such as ensuring information is available for repurposing in future courses, completing reference letters, etc.), while ensuring requirements of the Copyright Act and Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act are met.", "DATA PRIVACY\n\nWhere are the servers for the new Canvas Cloud located? The servers hosting SFU\u2019s Canvas Cloud are located in Canada. How secure is my content on Canvas Cloud? Where can I find privacy and compliance information on Instructure? Information on privacy can be found on Instructure\u2019s Trust Center . Will my content be used to train artificial intelligence models and tools? No, Instructure has a strong statement on the protection of customer data. Canvas Cloud will provide AI features on its platform where no customer data will be used to train any AI feature model. Data will only be shared to AI models when you choose to use Canvas Cloud AI features to generate prompts. These models are housed internally by Instructure and no data ever leaves their data center in Canada. For further details, visit AI Nutrition Facts on Canvas Discussion Summaries . Note : At this time, AI features on Canvas are disabled globally.", "For pedagogical or instructional design questions:\n\nContact ceehelp@sfu.ca.", "For additional assistance or technical support:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' ' as the area of help) Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article introduces SFU Groups, explaining their purpose, how they work, and the different types available. It also outlines the key differences between Exchange Distribution Groups and Security Groups, helping users understand how to manage access and permissions effectively. What is a group? Type of Groups Training Videos Comparison Chart What is a group? In SFU Groups, groups are used to organize users who have similar roles or responsibilities. Think of a group as a team or a club: when you add users to a group, you can manage their access to resources and privileges all at once, instead of doing it individually for each user. Since SFU is a large and complex organization, managing groups instead of individual users ensures our resources are organized and secure. It also makes sure that only the right people can access certain resources. Type of Groups In SFU Groups, there are two types of groups", "for the standard user:\n\nExchange Distribution Groups and Security Groups . Exchange Distribution Groups (EDGs, or distribution groups) is a feature of Microsoft Exchange (SFU's email system) that allows a user to send messages to a list of SFU email addresses, or to members of other SFU Groups, all at once. For more information, visit Request an Exchange Distribution Group . Security groups (or reference groups) are used for security or access control to services or resources. Security groups contain a list of SFU members and can be synced to multiple services or resources to provide access, assign privileges or provision licensing. For more information, visit Request a Security Group (Reference Group) . Some security groups may be called reference groups if they are managed by departments or staff. This is to distinguish from policy groups (also security groups) which are managed by IT service managers and IT admins. Training Videos Below are training video guides on how to use SFU Groups ( groups.sfu.ca", "BASICS & NAVIGATING\n\n(2 min)", "ADD OR REMOVE MEMBERS\n\n(1 min)", "GROUP PROPERTIES\n\n(4 min)", "EDG & PRIVILEGES\n\n(4 min)", "SECURITY GROUPS\n\n(2 min)", "GROUP REVIEWS\n\n(1 min) Comparison Chart", "SECURITY GROUP\n\nAlternative name Distribution Group Reference Group Purpose or usage Email distribution : when you need to email a group of users. When adding members, they will receive emails when they are sent to the group. Security or access control : when you need to restrict access to a particular service or resource. When adding members, they will gain privileges to accessing services or resources linked to the group. Who can manage Staff, faculty or students (for educational purposes) Staff or faculty (when needed for a service or resource) Who can be a member Active SFU accounts Other Exchange Distribution Groups Reference groups Note : External emails cannot be added. Active SFU accounts Other security groups Note : Some services don't allow sponsored accounts . Used for SFU Mail (Outlook / Exchange Online) Microsoft Teams SharePoint sites Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) Printers and labs File servers Auto-populated Exchange Distribution Groups And more... Manage your groups At groups.sfu.ca At groups.sfu.ca", "(IT Admins:\n\ngrouper.its.sfu.ca ) Create a group Using a self-serve request form Contact your departmental IT staff", "(IT Admins:\n\ngrouper.its.sfu.ca ) Delete a group Request a ticket with Group Management Support Team Contact your departmental IT staff Delays on membership change 30 minutes to sync changes 30 minutes to sync changes on Microsoft services (e.g., MS Teams, SharePoint), otherwise minimal delay. Group review None Requires attestation once every 100 days. A group review (or attestation) refers to the periodic review to certify that their membership is accurate and up-to-date, and that the group is still required or in-use on SFU Groups.", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the different privileges available in SFU Groups and explains how to assign them to your group members. Understanding Privileges How to Assign or Remove Privileges Understanding Privileges SFU Groups supports two main types of groups", ":\n\nExchange Distribution Groups, utilized for email distribution Security Groups, utilized for access to services and resources Each group type has privileges that determine how users can interact with and manage the group. The following table explains privileges in SFU Groups", ":\n\nFor Exchange Distribution Groups For Security Groups Group Member User receives emails sent to the distribution group. User gains access to service or resource tied to the security group. Allowed Senders Only users listed here can send emails to the distribution group. Note : Only visible when Restricted Senders is enabled. Not applicable. Denied Senders Users listed here are blocked from sending emails to the distribution group. Not applicable. Group Managers User can edit group membership and assign/remove other group managers. Note : Managers won't receive emails unless they're also a group member. Can only be assigned by Grouper IT Admins on the Grouper UI with UPDATE + READ privileges. Note : Managers will also receive emails to attest their security groups . Group Readers User can add this group as a member on another group. Note : This only allows this group to be searchable to be added as a member. It won't appear under Groups I manage . Can only be assigned by Grouper IT Admins on the Grouper UI with READ privileges. Note: Grouper IT Admins can visit Grouper Technical Documentation for more information about privileges. Access restricted to Grouper IT Admins. How to assign or remove Privileges", "TIP\n\nGroup Managers can assign any privilege on Exchange Distribution Groups , including adding or removing other Group Managers. Group Managers can only assign group members on Security Groups . Other privileges for Security Groups can only be assigned by Grouper IT Admins. Assigning or removing privileges is the same as adding or removing members. For step-by-step instructions, please refer to the following guides: Add Members Remove Members", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications This article is written for anyone who supports SFU Managed Linux workstations, or has purchased storage with the Research Computing Group (RCG) Background The SFU Maillist system will be shut down April 30th, 2025. Your existing access control maillists will continue to work for the medium-term future (see below). Read more about: SFU's transition from maillists to Exchange Distribution Groups, SimpleLists, and Campaigner Grouper, SFU's new access control and group management system What do I need to do? Gather a list of affected labs and users. (see \"Can I get a list of labs/file shares...\" below) Create reference groups for each lab. Grouper best practices advise you to create small groups (e.g., ref:dept:cmns:labX_members and ref:dept:cmns:labX_admins ) and add those groups to a larger composite group (e.g., ref:dept:cmns:labX_all ). This allows easy separation of user and admin privileges on Linux hosts and finer-grained management of mailing lists. Sync your reference groups to Active Directory by creating new groups under resource:app:ADSFU:SFUGroups. Active Directory groups require unique names, so it would be wise to prefix these group names with your school or department name. (Repetition of unit names is discouraged elsewhere in Grouper.) Create e.g., resource:app:ADSFU:SFUGroups:cmns_labX_members. Add the group ref:dept:cmns:labX_members to resource:app:ADSFU:SFUGroups:cmns_labX_members . (Do not add individual users to the resource:... group; add the reference group itself.) Contact research-support@sfu.ca with the lab name and group information you used in Step 3. When do I need to do this? Active Directory groups based on maillists will be purged in the medium-term future since they can no longer be updated and thus pose a security risk. An exact date has not been announced but it would be advisable to complete your transition to Grouper by the end of 2025. Can I get a list of labs/file shares that I need", "the medium-term future since they can no longer be updated and thus pose a security risk. An exact date has not been announced but it would be advisable to complete your transition to Grouper by the end of 2025. Can I get a list of labs/file shares that I need to update? Yes! Send an e-mail to research-support@sfu.ca and specify which department/school/unit you're in. Will RCG be contacting labs directly? Due to limited staffing and a campus-wide user base, we will reach out to users that have not made the transition to Grouper later this year or early next year. I use maillists for both access control and e-mail. What should I do? You should still follow \" What do I need to do?", "\" above. Afterwards, if you need to:\n\nreach SFU members (and only SFU members), create an Exchange Distribution Group . reach internal and external users, use SimpleLists . reach a large number of external users, use Campaigner .", "IT Professional Services Training and Outreach", "OVERVIEW\n\nMany First Nations and Inuit written languages (orthographies) include characters that are not available on the standard English keyboard. This document includes the following tips to improve typing accuracy, consistency and ease with a focus on h\u0259n\u0313q\u0313\u0259min\u0313\u0259m\u0313 (Musqueam, Downriver dialect) and S\u1e35wx\u0331w\u00fa7mesh (Squamish) written languages. Use the right font Copy and paste from a credible source document Use a language specific online keyboard", "DETAILS\n\n1. Use the right font For most applications, use Arial, SFU\u2019s recommended system font. This is available on all managed devices. For marketing collateral and branded communications use November or Lava, SFU\u2019s recommended licensed standard fonts. For more information see the SFU Brand Guidelines. 2. Copy and paste from a credible source document This method is ideal when digital documents are produced by someone familiar with typing Indigenous language. Typically, these documents use fonts with adequate language support such as Arial, Calibri, Times New Roman, Aboriginal Sans, Aboriginal Serif and BC Sans. When copying from a source document, ensure the text is as the author intended. Closely inspect pasted text to ensure it is the same as the source document. Pay special attention to the placement of symbols around characters. Double check the font being used in your target document is correct (see point 1 above). 3. Use a language-specific online keyboard If copying and pasting is not an option or unsuccessful, try using an online keyboard. is a recognized online keyboard resource endorsed by FirstVoices.com , a collaborative platform that contains over 100 Indigenous language keyboards as well as keystroke guides to help input specific characters, symbols and character combinations. Visit the h\u0259n\u0313q\u0313\u0259min\u0313\u0259m\u0313 online keyboard and keystroke guide . Visit the S\u1e35wx\u0331w\u00fa7mesh sn\u00edchim online keyboard and keystroke guide . If copying and pasting from a source document into your target document is unsuccessful, try these steps: Copy from the source document into the appropriate online keyboard. Click the copy button on the online keyboard. Paste into your target document. To input text directly without copying and pasting, use the online keyboard in conjunction with the appropriate language keystroke guide. When complete click the copy button on the online keyboard then paste into your target document. is available on multiple", "DETAILS\n\nbutton on the online keyboard. Paste into your target document. To input text directly without copying and pasting, use the online keyboard in conjunction with the appropriate language keystroke guide. When complete click the copy button on the online keyboard then paste into your target document. is available on multiple platforms including mobile application on iOS and Android.", "Information Security Secure Computing", "OVERVIEW\n\nNetwork Access Control (NAC) is a security solution designed to manage and enforce policies for network access, ensuring that only compliant and authorized devices can connect to the network. NAC provides robust protection against vulnerabilities and enhances overall network security. See the network flow diagram for Surrey, Vancouver, and Burnaby.", "Benefits:\n\nEnhanced Security: NAC ensures that only compliant devices can securely access the network, reducing the risk of unauthorized access and potential security breaches Comprehensive Visibility: Real-time monitoring and reporting provide complete visibility into endpoint compliance and network access activities Simplified Management: Centralized management of health-check settings and policies simplifies troubleshooting and compliance reporting. NAC FAQs What is Network Access Control (NAC)? NAC is a security enhancement tool that ensures only authenticated users and authorized, compliant devices can access SFU\u2019s network, protecting your data and work. NAC strengthens SFU\u2019s defenses against cyber threats and aligns with the goals of What\u2019s Next: the SFU Strategy and the SFU IT Plan . When will NAC be implemented? Surrey Campus: April 2025 Vancouver Campus: June 2025 Burnaby Campus: October 2025 Can I opt out? If you are on a managed PC or MAC, NAC will automatically roll out to your machine. This is an essential security service. Am I being tracked? Only your managed machine is verified on the SFU network; no data is being tracked \u2013 NAC does not view your files or web traffic. Will this affect my ability to connect to SFU\u2019s network? You will experience no changes in accessing the SFU network at this time. In the near future, compliant managed devices and self-managed devices will be pointed to different networks for security purposes. What is a managed device? For VPFA staff, managed devices refers to desktops and laptops that are managed by IT Services. If you are part of faculty, you may want to consult with your local IT group as to whether your device is managed by your local IT group or by IT Services. Staff and faculty can enroll their devices purchased through SFU's Procurement Services into managed devices, to benefit from standards that ensure the device", "Benefits:\n\nfaculty, you may want to consult with your local IT group as to whether your device is managed by your local IT group or by IT Services. Staff and faculty can enroll their devices purchased through SFU's Procurement Services into managed devices, to benefit from standards that ensure the device is secure, license compliant, connected to enterprise resources, and regularly updated and maintained. Managed devices can also be found in offices, lecture rooms, labs, and libraries on campuses. See Managed Computer Services for more details. How does nac impact sfu managed devices? You don\u2019t need to take any action and won\u2019t notice any changes on your managed device unless there\u2019s a network compliance issue. NAC operates quietly in the background, ensuring secure access to SFU\u2019s network. You may notice a new NAC icon in the menu bar or system tray of your device. This icon indicates the system is actively managing your network connection to ensure compliance. What if I don\u2019t have an SFU managed device? Self-managed devices will move to a different network and may have future network limitations . Who should I contact if I have questions or encounter issues? Please contact the Network Services team at ns-help@sfu.ca if you have questions. To report an issue, you or your local IT admin can create a ticket in TDNext .", "For Local IT Staff:\n\nWhat actions are required from Local IT?", "Local IT should check the common local security control points:\n\nLocal OS (Mac, Windows, Linux), investigate local firewalls Mac and Linux hosts - check \"allow.host\" and \"deny.host\" Windows clients - check group policies Dedicated firewall rules or ACLs on networking equipment Central IT will adjust the 172.16 IP space rules where known, but Local IT should reach out to SFU Cloud if there are specific rules to be changed on individual servers. If Local IT groups are unsure of which static IP addresses are under their control, a IT helpdesk ticket can be created to identify the domains and associated IP addresses. Will NAC affect our faculty's specialized equipment? IT Services will work directly with Local IT teams to ensure proper configuration and continuity of service for specialized equipment. What about systems with fixed IP addresses? IT Services will work with local IT to manage the transition to DHCP and provide specific instructions when action is needed. Do not make any IP configuration changes until directed.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Copilot Copilot Agents are a way to expand your interactions in Copilot with customized instructions, actions, or knowledge sources so you can create consistent and personalized experiences.", "For a visual introduction to Copilot Agents, see:\n\nGetting to know Copilot Agents Sign in to Copilot There are several ways to start a Copilot Agent, either by describing what you'd like it to do by having a conversation with Copilot itself or by configuring it directly. For a quick visual overview on creating an agent, see: Creating agents in Copilot .", "As you create an agent, you'll be able to provide:\n\nInstructions that tell it how to act an behave. Knowledge sources that tell it what it should know. Instructions Instructions define how your Copilot Agent should act and respond. For example, instructions for a \"tutor agent\" can change it's behaviour so it challenges you to explain your reasoning when answering questions rather than simply providing you with answers.", "Instructions should include:\n\nPurpose General guidelines, including general directions, tone, and restrictions Skills", "In addition, when relevant, instructions include:\n\nStep-by-step instructions Error handling and limitations Feedback and iteration Interaction examples Non-standard terms Follow-up and closing", "To learn more about effective instructions, see:\n\nWrite effective instructions for declarative (Copilot) agents Below are also some examples of instructions to help you get started: Idea Coach You are a personal assistant called Idea Coach, who helps to facilitate a brainstorming session and to plan brainstorming sessions. You should use a fun, collaborative tone to inspire creativity. When you have questions you **must** only send questions one at a time to not overwhelm the user and to keep conversation bi-directional and multiturn. You should always contextualize the response you provide, based on the inputs the user has given you and their goal. Ask additional questions where necessary to clarify and confirm your understanding. Last but not the least **always ask** the user has and confirm if the user wants to make changes to any of your suggestions. At the end of each interaction on a specific topic with the user ask how you did and recommend using the thumbs up and down feature in Copilot.", "You should follow these guidelines for the following subjects:\n\nFor **Brainstorm a topic**: You should act as a session host and help brainstorm about a topic you will ask for. You need to be creative, engaging and ask your questions one by one to create a multiturn conversation flow with the user and help achieve their goal. For **Planning a brainstorming session**: ensure you customize the agenda to the specific objectives, you should ask the user the following questions in sequential order, to ensure they provide the right context: - What is the brainstorming topic? - When do you want to run your workshop? - How long should the workshop be? - What are the ideation objectives? - Is the session in person remote or hybrid? - How many people will take part in the workshop You should make detailed creative suggestions for topics and activities that should be discussed and used during each part of the agenda and incorporate the time suggested by the user into the agenda to make sure things run on time. You will write a detailed agenda that a knowledge worker could use to help them facilitate a brainstorming session with their colleagues on a particular topic. Please format the agenda in tabular form, to include specific questions and discussion points for each phase. For **helping find creative exercises**: Ask the user for the exercise objectives, the number of attendees and how long it should last. Then propose at least 3 exercises that would fit the user scenario. For **Idea Organization**: Ask the user for more context about the exercises they ran, then propose some tools or technics to help prioritize the Ideas got from this brainstorming session. You should not prioritize the ideas the user provides you with but rather offer help to rate, prioritize those with no bias. For **Feedback and Improvement**:", "You should follow these guidelines for the following subjects:\n\nfor more context about the exercises they ran, then propose some tools or technics to help prioritize the Ideas got from this brainstorming session. You should not prioritize the ideas the user provides you with but rather offer help to rate, prioritize those with no bias. For **Feedback and Improvement**: Ask the user about the session, how it ran, how they felt about it, what was were the pain points, what was the output so you can provide some feedback. Your feedback should be structured with clear solutions to improve and you should open discussions with the user to see how you can help more. For **Training and Development**: First ask the user if they want to improve some specifics skills or want to grow in general. Then ask the user to rate themself on Brainstorming Session on a scale of 1 to 10 and finally ask them 5 questions to assess the level based on the first response. Then provide a training plan to help them grow on the subject with training, exercises and technics. For **Assess my skills**: Ask the user what skills they want to improve. Then ask the users 4 questions (one at the time) that would help you assess their level on the matter. Then share a direct and informative assessment of the user master ship and ask them if they want you to create a training plan. Writing COach You are a Writing Coach. Your role is to provide detailed and constructive feedback on the following piece of writing and assist with writing tasks. **Skill 1: Coach me on an existing text** - Focus on clarity, coherence, grammar, syntax, tone, style, and overall impact. - Suggest specific improvements or alternatives. - Ask for the type of text (e.g., email, report, story) for tailored feedback.", "You should follow these guidelines for the following subjects:\n\nthe following piece of writing and assist with writing tasks. **Skill 1: Coach me on an existing text** - Focus on clarity, coherence, grammar, syntax, tone, style, and overall impact. - Suggest specific improvements or alternatives. - Ask for the type of text (e.g., email, report, story) for tailored feedback. - Request the piece of writing for feedback. - Use a fun, collaborative tone to inspire creativity. **Skill 2: Help change the tone of an email or message** - Ask for the desired tone and specific points to highlight. - Provide examples of different tones (e.g., formal, casual, friendly). **Skill 3: Translate a piece of text into another language** - Ask if any cultural nuances should be considered. **Skill 4: Teach me how to write instructions** - Ask for a description of the feature to explain. - Write clear and concise instructions. - Ensure the instructions are easy to follow and understand. **Skill 5: Help me write a story** - Ask for details about the customer story (e.g., customer name, company, key points). - Assist in structuring the story with a clear beginning, middle, and end. - Provide suggestions to make the story engaging and impactful. **Skill 6: Help me write a whitepaper** - Assist with identifying the topics to cover. - Help define the target audience. - Provide guidance on the style (e.g., discussion, proof, pitch new idea). - Focus on enhancing clarity, coherence, and overall impact. - Suggest specific improvements or alternatives to make the whitepaper more engaging and effective. - At the end of each interaction on a specific topic with the user ask the user how you did and recommend the user to use the thumbs up and down. Presentation Planner You are a declarative agent that helps give guidance on creating better slide presentations for", "You should follow these guidelines for the following subjects:\n\nand effective. - At the end of each interaction on a specific topic with the user ask the user how you did and recommend the user to use the thumbs up and down. Presentation Planner You are a declarative agent that helps give guidance on creating better slide presentations for executive audience. If the user does not provide a duration of the presentation, please prompt the user for the duration. If the user does not provide a slide with asks to the executives, please prompt the user to confirm they do not have any asks. Suggest if they don't to have any asks to provide a summary slide to wrap up the presentation.", "You should follow these guidelines:\n\n1. Limit Text Quantity: 5/5/5 Rule: No more than 5 words per line, 5 lines of text per slide, and avoid more than 5 consecutive text-heavy slide. 2. Focus on a Single Idea per Slide: Concentrate on one main point per slide to prevent overwhelming the audience and to maintain a clear narrative 3. Maintain Consistent Design: Use uniform fonts, colors, and layouts throughout the presentation to create a cohesive and professional appearance 4. Enhance Readability: Choose simple, sans-serif fonts like Arial or Calibri.Ensure text is large enough to be read from a distance; a minimum of 24-point font is recommended. Use high-contrast color combinations between text and background to improve visibility. 5. Utilize Visuals Effectively: Incorporate relevant images, charts, and graphs to support and illustrate key points, aiding in audience comprehension. 6. Incorporate White Space: Allow for adequate white space to prevent slides from appearing cluttered, helping to direct focus and improve readability. 7. Get timing right: When adhering to the \u201cone idea per slide\u201d principle, the time spent on each slide can vary based on the complexity of the content and the overall length of your presentation. A general guideline is to spend approximately 1 to 2 minutes per slide. This pacing allows for a thorough explanation of each idea without overwhelming the audience. For instance, in a 20-minute presentation, you might have around 10 to 15 slides, dedicating about 1 to 2 minutes to each. Meeting summary and agenda planner You are an administrative assistant at a learning institute, assisting an administrator in summarizing their recent meeting notes. Initial Inquiry: Begin by asking, \"Which department or team do you oversee, and what was the meeting's main topic?\" Gathering Information: After receiving their response, request, \"Please provide the meeting notes or transcript.\" Once received, confirm, \"Is this the", "You should follow these guidelines:\n\nlearning institute, assisting an administrator in summarizing their recent meeting notes. Initial Inquiry: Begin by asking, \"Which department or team do you oversee, and what was the meeting's main topic?\" Gathering Information: After receiving their response, request, \"Please provide the meeting notes or transcript.\" Once received, confirm, \"Is this the complete set of notes, or are there more?\" If more notes are available, ask for them. If not, proceed to the next step. Summary Goals: Ask, \"Would you like a summary? If yes, are there specific points or goals you'd like highlighted?\"", "Creating the Summary: Summarize the meeting, focusing on:\n\nKey takeaways Conclusions Recommended next steps A proposed agenda for the subsequent meeting, prioritized by urgency, importance, and dependency. For each point, use a bolded two-word heading for easy scanning. Brevity: Ensure the summary is concise, ideally no more than 10% of the original length and up to one page. Feedback: After presenting the summary, ask, \"Would you like any revisions or have additional input? I can also format this as a message for your team or supervisors.\" Conclusion: Conclude by saying, \"Thank you for the information. Please let me know how I can further assist you.\" Remember to be methodical, ensuring you've gathered all necessary details before summarizing. Wrap up the conversation by thanking and encouraging the administrator.", "Additional examples (and credit) can be found at:\n\nMicrosoft Prompts for EDU Knowledge Sources Knowledge sources further inform your agent about what it should consider and specialize in so it can help answer your questions. If you have Copilot Chat , you'll be able to add any publicly accessible website as a knowledge source. If you have Microsoft 365 Copilot , additional knowledge sources (such as SharePoint Online sites and documents) will be available. Copilot Agent Templates Not sure where to start when creating an agent, or creating one for the first time? Kick-start your experience using pre-made templates that provide instructions and prompt suggestions. To get started with Copilot Agent templates, see: Overview of agent templates Related Articles (4) Additional Learning Resources for Copilot Resources and learning paths that can help you get started with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Copilot Chat Learn about Copilot Chat, a generative AI assistant on the Microsoft 365 platform that is available to everyone at SFU. Introduction to Prompts in Copilot Get familiar with the basics of constructing good prompts and learn about a few prompt engineering techniques so you get the most out of your questions to Copilot. Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn more about Microsoft 365 Copilot (a personalized productivity AI assistant) at SFU.", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "OVERVIEW\n\nMicrosoft will end support for Windows 10 in October 2025, meaning they will stop providing software updates or security fixes, making it necessary for all SFU managed devices to transition to Windows 11. This upgrade ensures continued security, performance, and compatibility with the current tools and applications. This upgrade is part of SFU's broader digital transformation and commitment to delivering accessible, user-friendly technology that supports the university community's work and collaboration.", "WHAT'S CHANGING?\n\nIT is upgrading managed devices to Windows 11 to give users a faster, secure and more reliable computing experience. Notable changes include start menu layout updates, a new file sharing interface and added AI Copilot features.", "When:\n\nUnits will receive an email with details notifying them in advance of their two-week window to complete the upgrade. To avoid interruptions, we encourage you to complete the upgrade during your assigned window. If you miss the deadline, Windows 11 will be installed automatically at the end of the day on the following Friday to make sure your device stays secure and supported.", "What to do before the upgrade:\n\nTo avoid potential loss of data, ensure you backup all your important files to your departmental shared drive or OneDrive ahead of time. Training resources on how to use OneDrive are available here .", "HOW TO UPGRADE YOUR DEVICE\n\nStep 1: Press the Windows Start Key and search for Software Center . Step 2: Open Software Center application. Step 3: Select Operating Systems on the menu. Step 4: Select Upgrade to Windows 11E x64 24H2 Feb 2025 and click Install. Step 5: Leave your device plugged in and turned on to complete the upgrade. Your device will restart automatically.", "FAQS\n\nHow Long does the upgrade take? It will take approximately 45 \u2013 60 mins to complete, depending on your internet connection. How will I know when my unit's Upgrade Window is? Units will receive an email to complete the upgrade in advance of their designated upgrade window. The last day to complete the upgrade on your own and the day devices will be upgraded automatically will be noted. What if I forget to Upgrade My Device During the Upgrade Window? Compatible Client Services managed devices within your unit will automatically be upgraded end of day on the Friday after your deadline. The exact date will be listed in the email from your unit\u2019s EA. What if I'm Away during the upgrade Window for my Unit? If you\u2019ll be away, leave your device at your desk - turned on, logged off and plugged in - so the upgrade can run automatically. I'm unsure if my device is managed by Client Services. Who should I contact? Kindly contact your unit's admin lead. What happens if my device is not compatible with Windows 11? IT Services will contact you or your unit admin with upgrade or replacement options. If you have a question about upgrading your device to Windows 11 but don't see it here, please contact the Service Desk. Submit a ticket Related Articles (1) Managed Devices Overview and FAQs Learn about supported operating systems, computer models, remote access and frequently asked questions related to managed devices at SFU.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Computing Account", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article explains how to reset the password associated with your Computing ID (ex. kipling) or username. It requires knowledge of your Computing ID, your SFU ID number (also known as your 9-digit student number or employee ID number), and either access to your recovery email address or knowing the answer to your security question. Reset your Computing ID password Using your recovery email address Using your security question and answer Setting a new password Unable to reset your password FAQ's If you can log in and want to change your password, visit my.sfu.ca/ChangePassword .", "DETAILS\n\n1. Reset your Computing ID password", "To reset your password:\n\nVisit my.sfu.ca/ForgotPassword. Enter your Computing ID (ex. kipling - should not contain @sfu.ca or an underscore \"_\") in the Username field and your SFU ID number in", "SFU ID\n\nfield. See our", "FAQ\n\nif you need help retrieving your Computing ID or your SFU ID number. You should either have a recovery email address set or a security question available for you to answer. The answer to your security question is case-sensitive. Using your recovery email address To send yourself a password reset link to your recovery email: Select Send email . An email from IT Services (noreply@sfu.ca) will be sent to the recovery email within a few minutes. If you don't see it, check your junk or spam folders. Open the link from the email and you'll be prompted to set a new password. Using your security question and answer To reset your password using your security question and answer. Please note that the answer is case-sensitive", ":\n\nEnter the answer to your question. Select Submit answer . If correct, you'll be prompted to set a new password. 2. Setting a new password When setting a new password, make sure it's one you haven't used before. Your new password also needs to be sufficiently strong or complicated enough to allow you to set it. You may wish to use a password manager or your device's suggested password for a stronger password. 3. Unable to reset password", "If you encounter the following scenario:\n\nYou don't have a recovery email address set or can't access it You can't answer your security question or don't have one set Any other issues with resetting or setting a new password Contact the IT Service Desk for assistance. 4. FAQ's 1. How do I RETRIEVE my SFU ID number? Role How-to Staff/Faculty Staff members can contact SFU's People Strategies to retrieve their SFU ID. Faculty members can contact the Faculty Relations reception desk to retrieve their SFU ID. Students Contact Registrar and Information Services to retrieve their SFU ID number. Alumni For alumni who graduated prior to 2009, your records may need to be verified by our Alumni Relations team before it can be made available. Fill out the SFU ID retrieval form: https://www.sfu.ca/alumni/forms/student-number-request.html Otherwise, contact Registrar and Information Services to retrieve your SFU ID number. Other If you did not complete a degree or diploma from SFU, contact Registrar and Information Services . Role accounts Contact the IT Service Desk . 2. How do I Retrieve my COMPUTING ID? Once you have your SFU ID number, you can retrieve your Computing ID: 1. Visit my.sfu.ca/ForgotUsername 2. Submit your SFU ID number and date of birth 3. How do I Update my recovery email address? Once you've recovered your password, you can update your recovery email address by doing the following: Role How-to Staff/Faculty Sign into myINFO In the \u201cEmployee Self Service\u201d page, select Personal Details , then Contact Details If you have an external email address set, it will be listed as \u201cOther\u201d. If the address is not current and correct, click the \u201c>\u201d to the right of your listed address On the dialogue box that appears, ensure that \u201cEmail type\u201d is set to \u201cOther\u201d and enter your preferred external email address. Click \u201cSave\u201d when done. If", "If you encounter the following scenario:\n\nit will be listed as \u201cOther\u201d. If the address is not current and correct, click the \u201c>\u201d to the right of your listed address On the dialogue box that appears, ensure that \u201cEmail type\u201d is set to \u201cOther\u201d and enter your preferred external email address. Click \u201cSave\u201d when done. If you do not have an \u201cOther\u201d address listed, click the \u201c+\u201d icon in the Email section of the Contact Details page to add a new address Students Sign into go.sfu.ca Select Student Centre In the section with the heading \u201cPersonal Information\u201d, select \u201cemail\u201d from the \u201cdrop down at the bottom of the section In the \u201cEmail Type\u201d column, choose \u201cOther\u201d, enter your external email address and click Save Alumni, Other, and Role Accounts Contact the IT Service Desk .", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "OVERVIEW\n\nSFU is introducing device hardening policies to enhance the security of university-managed computers. These policies ensure devices follow standardized, secure settings that help protect university systems, data, and users. Most users will not notice any major changes. In some cases, you may see prompts in Microsoft Office when working with macros: Example : A yellow banner warning may appear when opening Word, Excel, or PowerPoint files with macros. This is normal and part of Microsoft\u2019s built-in security.", "DETAILS\n\nWhat to Expect After Hardening Change What It Means Microsoft Office Macro Warnings You may see an \"Enable Content\" warning banner in Office documents that contain macros. If the file is from a trusted source, you can manually enable the content. No Impact to Daily Workflows Most applications and processes will continue to work as usual. Possible Restrictions In rare cases, you may notice new restrictions or behaviors (e.g., blocked features or access prompts).", "WHAT TO DO\n\nUse your device as normal as most workflows are unaffected Note Office macros and enable content in trusted documents Log a ticket to report unusual behaviours or errors using TDX", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nAs SFU transitions from Canvas On-Premise to Canvas Cloud , this guide is designed to support faculty and staff in understanding the key changes, new features, and functional differences between the two platforms. Whether you're preparing for upcoming courses or exploring new tools, this document provides a clear comparison to help you navigate the shift with confidence. You'll find detailed overviews of enhanced capabilities such as New Quizzes and New Analytics, as well as side-by-side tables outlining differences in access, navigation, course features, and compliance. This resource aims to ensure a smooth and informed transition for all SFU educators and support staff. Key Features Differences Comparison Note : Canvas Cloud is currently in the pilot stage. Settings may slightly differ on the official launch in January 2026.", "KEY FEATURES\n\nThe following highlights key features now available to SFU as part of the transition to Canvas Cloud:", "New Quizzes is a quiz engine that integrates with Canvas and replaces the classic quizzes functionality currently existing in Canvas.", "New Quizzes includes:\n\nEnhanced user interface for quiz building New question types (e.g., hotspot, categorization, ordering) Partial credit on multiple choice questions Printing (e.g., print blank quizzes or with answers) Item bank searching and filtering Option to require a waiting period between attempts Option to show an on-screen calculator More granular shuffling options Additional features on student moderations and accommodations Additional features on reporting and analytics", "For more information, visit Instructure\u2019s webpage:\n\nWhat is New Quizzes? For a detailed list of feature comparison on Classic Quizzes and New Quizzes, visit Instructure\u2019s documentation: Quizzes Feature Comparison", "NOTE\n\nYou can convert Classic Quizzes into New Quizzes. Once a Classic Quiz is converted, it cannot be reverted. On the Quizzes page, select on a Classic Quiz, then Migrate to convert. New Quizzes do not have a survey feature at this time. If you need this feature, continue using Classic Quizzes until the vendor implements this feature. Item Bank (newer version of Question Bank) is intended to be used with New Quizzes. Question Bank is only compatible with Classic Quizzes.", "New Analytics provides interactive graphs and tables that allow instructors and students to track data related to course grades, activity, and communication.", "New Analytics enables:\n\nInstructors to track student grades, submission status, weekly course activity, individual student participation, and online attendance. There are also built-in features to message students based on their submission status or grade. Students to view and download data about their course grades, weekly online activity, and Inbox communication.", "For more information, visit Instructure\u2019s webpage:\n\nWhat is New Analytics?", "DIFFERENCES COMPARISON\n\n= Available = Partially or significantly different = Not available", "CANVAS CLOUD\n\nCanvas Weblink (URL) canvas.sfu.ca canvas-old.sfu.ca (Starting January 2026) canvas-new.sfu.ca (temporary) canvas.sfu.ca (Starting January 2026) Canvas Mobile \u200b \u200b \u200b \u200b (In January 2026, all mobile users will be asked to re-sign in) QR for Mobile Login \u200b \u200b \u201cStart a New Course\u201d Tool \u200b \u200b \u200b \u200b Credit Course Shell Creation Request using the \u201cStart a New Course\u201d Tool. The \"Start a New Course\" tool remains available. In addition, course shells will now automatically be created one semester prior to start of class. See Changes to Credit Course Shell Creation for details. Canvas Commons with a US database \u200b with a Canadian database Available content will be different. Canvas Spaces Retired in 2024. No longer available. Access Tokens \u200b \u200b \u200b \u200b", "CANVAS CLOUD\n\nRecent History Quickly navigate to previously visited pages on Canvas. \u200b \u200b Setting : Disable Celebration Animations \u200b \u200b Setting : Disable Keyboard Shortcuts \u200b \u200b Setting : Dyslexia Friendly Font \u200b \u200b Notification : Reported Reply (for instructors) \u200b \u200b", "CANVAS CLOUD\n\nNew Quizzes A new quiz engine that integrates with Canvas. Available as Classic Quizzes \u200b \u200b New Analytics Provides interactive graphs and tables that allow instructors and students to track data related to course grades, activity, and communication. \u200b \u200b Enhanced Rubric Provides visual and functional enhancements to Rubrics. \u200b \u200b Needs to be enabled in course settings Discussion Summaries (AI) Uses a generative AI model to provide instructors summaries of key points, questions, and ideas in a discussion thread. Disabled globally until approved. Course Pacing Defines a pace in which students must complete course tasks. Typically for asynchronous courses. \u200b \u200b Needs to be enabled in course settings DocViewer A tool that allows annotations on uploaded online assignment submissions. A custom document preview tool is used. \u200b \u200b Now built-in. Differentiation Tags Label students or groups based on learning needs, styles, or interests. Can be used with the \"Assign To\" feature. \u200b \u200b Item Bank Provides visual and functional enhancements to Question Bank. Available as Question Bank which is compatible with Classic Quizzes. Item Bank is available to use with New Quizzes. Discussion: Enhancements Including Sorting, Marking as Read, Copy Link, Quote Reply. \u200b \u200b Needs to be enabled in course settings \u200b \u200b Discussion: Anonymous Replies Discussions and replies can be anonymous when set up by the instructor. \u200b \u200b Needs to be enabled in course settings \u200b \u200b Discussion: Graded Checkpoints Graded discussions can have checkpoints for more granular grading requirements. \u200b \u200b \u200b Discussion: Report Inappropriate Students can report inappropriate replies which notifies the instructor. \u200b \u200b", "SCORM LTI\n\nUsed for importing SCORM files such as assignments or item banks. \u200b \u200b Default due time Sets the default time of day when setting due dates. \u200b \u200b Custom Course Alerts \u200b \u200b \u200b \u200b Collaboration: Etherpad \u200b \u200b Only as a standalone tool . Integration is not available. Collaboration: Google Drive \u200b \u200b \u200b \u200b Collaboration: Microsoft 365 Coming soon. SpeedGrader \u200b \u200b \u200b \u200b Mastery Paths \u200b \u200b Needs to be enabled in course settings \u200b \u200b Needs to be enabled in course settings Outcomes \u200b \u200b \u200b \u200b Learning Mastery Gradebook (for Outcomes) \u200b \u200b Needs to be enabled in course settings \u200b \u200b No longer needs enabling", "CANVAS CLOUD\n\nServer Location SFU\u2019s Datacenter Instructure\u2019s Datacenter (Canada) LTI installation No restrictions Restricted to EduApp Center. Custom LTI installation need approval. Course Storage Quota", "0.5 GB\n\nSee Storage in Canvas Cloud for details. Personal Storage Quota", "0.05 GB\n\nSee Storage in Canvas Cloud for details. Group Storage Quota", "0.05 GB\n\nSee Storage in Canvas Cloud for details. Course Retention Not Set No changes at this time. RRSDA is in the early stages of drafting and anticipates broader stakeholder consultation in 2026. See our course retention FAQs . Maintenance Window Ad-hoc, as needed. 1st and 3rd Thursday of the month from 12:05 a.m. to 2:05 a.m. PST (UTC \u20138) Note : Canvas Cloud is currently in the pilot stage. Settings may slightly differ on the official launch in January 2026.", "For questions about Canvas migration:\n\nVisit our Canvas Migration FAQs .", "For pedagogical or instructional design questions:\n\nContact ceehelp@sfu.ca.", "For additional assistance or technical support:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' ' as the area of help) Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "IT Professional Services IT Communications and Documentation", "OVERVIEW\n\nChosen names, also known as preferred names, are names that individuals choose to use instead of their legal names. Students, faculty and staff can use a chosen first name that differs from their legal name in SFU\u2019s centrally-managed systems (i.e. goSFU, Canvas, MyInfo and Microsoft Apps). What you need to know SFU is undergoing a digital transformation to optimize our processes, technology and facilities while supporting our students, faculty and staff to achieve our academic mandate. As part of this digital transformation, we are phasing out certain systems and standardizing technology in use across SFU. Name changes are now integrated across our centrally-managed systems: goSFU, Canvas, MyInfo and Microsoft Apps. However, there are additional third-party systems and programs that are not supported by central IT and managed by faculty administration. For those systems, there may be a different process and contact person to change your name. Please reach out to faculty administration or your supervisor for more information on those systems. As our central systems and processes continue to evolve, updates may be available, and this webpage will be updated. How to change your name in SFU systems The below article provides step-by-step instructions on how to change your name in our centrally-managed systems.", "For Students:\n\nChanging your name in goSFU Changing your name in Canvas", "For Faculty and Staff:\n\nChanging your name in myInfo Changing your name in Canvas More Information Frequently Asked Questions Seeking Additional Assistance", "FOR STUDENTS\n\nChange your name in goSFU i. Current students, please go to goSFU and sign in with your computing ID and password. Applicants, please go to applicant.sfu.ca and sign in with your student number and password. ii. Click on Student Centre iii. Scroll down to Personal Information and click on Names from the list. iv. Click on \u2018Edit\u2019 icon for Chosen Name. v. You can only update the First Name and Middle Name. After clicking on \u2018Save\u2019, you will see the Chosen Name has been updated successfully. Change your name in Canvas Go to your Canvas profile and update your Display Name. Here are more instructions to guide the process. After January 2026, Canvas will automatically update with goSFU Will my chosen name automatically update in Canvas? Yes, starting January 2026, Canvas will automatically update directly with goSFU (students). Until then, manual updates are required. Updating your goSFU and Canvas accounts will update the following systems: Microsoft Apps (Microsoft Teams) Canvas Cloud Class and grade rosters", "FOR FACULTY AND STAFF\n\nChange your name in myInfo", "Staff:\n\nContact People, Equity and Inclusion via pei_reception@sfu.ca or call 778-782-3237", "Faculty:\n\nContact Faculty Relations via frsupp@sfu.ca or call 778-782-9715 Your chosen name will be added to myInfo Change your name in Canvas Go to your Canvas profile and update your Display Name. Here are more instructions to guide the process. After January 2026, Canvas will automatically update with myInfo.", "WILL MY CHOSEN NAME AUTOMATICALLY UPDATE IN CANVAS?\n\nYes, starting January 2026, Canvas will automatically update directly with myInfo (staff/faculty). Until then, manual updates are required. Staff will need to contact People, Equity and Inclusion via pei_reception@sfu.ca or call 778-782-3237 to change their name. For Faculty , please contact Faculty Relations via frsupp@sfu.ca or call 778-782-9715.", "Updating myInfo and Canvas accounts will update the following systems:\n\nMicrosoft Apps(Microsoft Teams) Canvas Cloud Internal directories and systems as they update", "FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS\n\nInstitutional Records", "WILL MY LEGAL NAME STILL BE REQUIRED?\n\nYes, legal names are still required for some official records (e.g., tax forms). Your chosen name will be used wherever possible for campus systems, IDs, and learning platforms. More information for students", "is available here:\n\nhttps://www.sfu.ca/students/enrolment-services/id-card/changing-your-name.html#change-name Faculty and staff can contact Faculty Relations or People, Equity and Inclusion for more information and support on legal name changes. System Integration", "HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE FOR MY CHOSEN NAME TO APPEAR ACROSS SYSTEMS?\n\nOnce you update goSFU or myInfo, your chosen name will appear in connected systems (like Canvas, Microsoft Teams, UPASS, and ID Cards) within 24 hours. WHERE WOULDN't MY CHOSEN NAME AUTOMATICALLY APPEAR? Zoom does not automatically update when you change your chosen name in goSFU or myInfo. If you use Zoom for classes or meetings, you\u2019ll need to update your display name directly in Zoom. There are additional third-party systems and programs that are not supported by central IT and managed by faculty administration. For those systems, there may be a different process and contact person to change your name. Please reach out to faculty administration or your supervisor for more information on those systems. Technical and Administrative Support What IF my chosen name isn't updating correctly? Please submit a support ticket through the IT Service Desk and we can support your requests. Note: There are additional third-party systems and programs that are not supported by central IT and managed by faculty administration. For those systems, there may be a different process and contact person to change your name. Please reach out to faculty administration or your supervisor for more information on those systems. Can I change my computing ID and/or email alias to reflect my chosen name? Email aliases may be updated; this process is made possible by submitting a support ticket to IT. Canvas Integration", "WILL MY CHOSEN NAME AUTOMATICALLY UPDATE IN CANVAS?\n\nYes, starting January 2026, Canvas will automatically update directly with goSFU (students) and myInfo (staff/faculty). Until then, manual updates are required. Staff will need to contact People, Equity and Inclusion via pei_reception@sfu.ca or call 778-782-3237 to change their name. For Faculty, please contact Faculty Relations via frsupp@sfu.ca or call 778-782-9715.", "SEEKING ADDITIONAL SUPPORT\n\nStudents, faculty and staff can request an updated SFU ID card. Visit the SFU ID Card name change page for more information. Submit a support ticket through the IT Service Desk. More information on SFU\u2019s commitment to inclusive environments can be found here: Chosen Names at SFU . For information on names for graduation documents and convocation, see the Convocation checklist .", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Privacy and Security Guidance for using Microsoft 365 Copilot article, we introduced the", "S.A.F.E-A.I.\n\nprinciples \u2014 a way to help you engage with AI technologies responsibly and confidently. In this article, we\u2019ll take a closer look at each principle, explore what they mean in practice and highlight how they\u2019re being applied at SFU. By understanding and applying these principles, you\u2019ll build the confidence and critical thinking skills needed to evaluate AI tools thoughtfully, ask the right questions and make responsible choices in your work. What's Included", "S\n\necure", "A\n\nccountable", "F\n\nair", "E\n\nxplainable (Transparency)", "A\n\nuditable (Safety & Reliability)", "I\n\nnclusive Secure One of the most pressing aspects of responsible AI is addressing privacy and security concerns . As AI systems, particularly generative AI, become more powerful, they introduce new risks to data security, personal privacy and even broader cybersecurity. There is a lot to consider in this section, so we'll outline some of the key concerns and challenges. Data Privacy and Unintended Exposure AI systems often train on large data sets that include personal or proprietary information. A major concern is unintended data leakage \u2013 models might inadvertently expose sensitive information that was in the training data. For instance, if employees input confidential text into a generative AI service, that data might get used to further train the model and later emerge in another user\u2019s output. Generative AI models can \u201cremember\u201d fragments of their training data , raising the risk that private information (like a person's contact info or proprietary code) could be regurgitated in responses. As a precaution, many organizations limit what data can be fed into public AI tools and AI providers are working on techniques to better filter or forget sensitive training data .", "NOTE:\n\nCopilot is is an institutionally reviewed AI solution that includes security and privacy guardrails to safeguard data; it's safe to use for work, study and research at SFU. Be careful when using non-reviewed public AI solutions, which can collect, store and use data you provide in unintended ways. You may be providing sensitive information to an entity that has no relationship, commitment, or responsibility to the university community. Intellectual Property and Copyright Generative AI raises questions about intellectual property (IP). Models trained on vast internet data might output content that unintentionally copycats copyrighted material . For example, a generative model might produce a passage of text almost identical to something in its training set (e.g., from a book or article), or an image model might generate something that resembles a specific artist\u2019s work. This blurring of originality complicates who owns AI-generated content and whether using certain training data infringes copyrights. Organizations deploying generative AI must be careful to avoid legal issues from AI output. Responsible AI use entails respecting IP rights , perhaps by curating training data or allowing authors to opt out and by guiding users to use AI outputs ethically (not passing off AI-generated art as human-made if that violates terms, for instance).", "NOTE:\n\nCopilot is included in Microsoft's Copyright Commitment which assumes legal responsibility for copyright challenges within reason . Do not use Copilot to infringe, misuse, or create harmful content related to intellectual property. Regulatory Compliance Privacy laws like", "FIPPA\n\n(in B.C., Canada) or", "GDPR\n\n(in Europe) and various data protection regulations worldwide impose requirements on automated decision-making and data handling. Organizations using AI need to ensure compliance , such as providing explanations for decisions, obtaining consent for personal data processing and enabling individuals to opt out of purely AI-based decisions. Future AI-specific regulations (like the proposed Canadian Artificial Intelligence Data Act ) will likely enforce certain privacy and transparency standards. Staying ahead of these governance requirements is a part of responsible AI strategy for any institution. SFU Guidance AI systems must protect personal data and be built with strong safeguards against unauthorized access. Security ensures that information is handled responsibly throughout the system\u2019s lifecycle and that robust security controls are in place to prevent abuse. Use only university-reviewed systems when entering personal information into AI tools, to ensure compliance with institutional privacy and security standards. Conduct Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) for new AI solutions, and update PIAs if they have significantly changed. Apply security safeguards proportional to data sensitivity . While evaluating AI solutions, choose privacy-protective technologies. Accountable Accountable means that organizations and people remain responsible for the outcomes of AI systems . If an AI system causes harm or makes a mistake, there should be a clear path to address it and a person or team responsible for it. The idea is that AI should not be an excuse to \u201cpass the buck\u201d \u2013 those who use AI must ensure it is used correctly and take responsibility for its impacts. SFU Guidance Organizations must remain answerable for how AI systems are developed and used. This includes ensuring decisions can be traced, data is used legally, and people\u2014not machines\u2014are ultimately responsible. You remain accountable for content generated by AI solutions you use, including the impacts of its use elsewhere. Responses from AI generated content", "GDPR\n\nmust remain answerable for how AI systems are developed and used. This includes ensuring decisions can be traced, data is used legally, and people\u2014not machines\u2014are ultimately responsible. You remain accountable for content generated by AI solutions you use, including the impacts of its use elsewhere. Responses from AI generated content must not be treated as a source of authority. If you are an SFU employee, do not use AI to collect personal information from public sources (such as websites, social media...etc.) except where specifically authorized and only after informing the individuals whose data is being collected. Understand that when AI generates information about a specific person\u2014even if it's guessed or inferred\u2014it still counts as personal data and must be handled according to privacy laws. Ensure that any personal information entered into AI systems is handled in accordance with the original Collection Notice and relevant privacy obligations, including the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act. or applicable university policies for your area. When considering AI solutions identify the impacts they could have on individuals or groups. Evaluate if it will be necessary for your purpose and not merely convenient. Fair AI systems should treat individuals and groups fairly , avoiding discrimination. This means the AI\u2019s decisions or outputs should not be prejudiced against people on the basis of characteristics like race, gender, or other protected attributes. A known challenge is that AI models can inherit biases present in their training data. Mitigating bias requires careful data set curation and ongoing evaluation. Techniques include using diverse training data, testing outcomes for disparate impact and correcting any biased decision rules. SFU Guidance AI should treat individuals equitably and avoid bias in outcomes. Fairness means ensuring that no group is unfairly advantaged or disadvantaged by automated decisions. Ensure the content you curate", "GDPR\n\nongoing evaluation. Techniques include using diverse training data, testing outcomes for disparate impact and correcting any biased decision rules. SFU Guidance AI should treat individuals equitably and avoid bias in outcomes. Fairness means ensuring that no group is unfairly advantaged or disadvantaged by automated decisions. Ensure the content you curate while using AI does not amplify biases or violate human rights, accessibility, or fairness obligations you have at the university. Explainable (Transparency) There is a need for transparency in how AI systems make decisions or produce outputs . For users and organizations to trust AI, they should be able to get some insight into what data was used and how the model works. This is difficult with complex models (the \u201cblack box\u201d problem), but efforts like Explainable AI (XAI) aim to provide human-understandable explanations for AI decisions. Transparency also involves being clear when content is generated or consumed by AI. Being transparent helps ensure accountability and allows individuals to contest or question an AI outcome.", "NOTE:\n\nSome AI solutions may not detail how an answer is being reached. As part of your question you can ask for an explanation to be included in the answer. For example, \"What is the best time to visit Vancouver? Explain your reasoning \". SFU Guidance Transparency in AI builds trust and enables scrutiny. Users must be able to understand how AI systems work, verify their outputs, and justify decisions informed by AI. You are responsible for verifying responses provided by AI. If you are unable to verify and explain results, then consider not using them. You remain responsible for the execution and transparency of decisions informed or made by AI Solutions. Ensure AI generated content doesn't falsely impersonate or misrepresent you, others, or any other additional commitments you have (such as copyrighted content). Be transparent when others are interacting with AI generated content created vs. human generated content. Mark outputs with significant impact as AI-generated. Clearly inform people when AI is used in decision-making, with recourse options available. Auditable(Safety & Reliability) AI should be reliable and safe , meaning it performs as intended under expected conditions and fails gracefully under unexpected conditions. For instance, if an AI system controls a vehicle or provides medical advice, it must undergo rigorous testing and auditing to handle edge cases and avoid dangerous failures. Safety also involves the AI not causing harm through its output. In generative AI, safety can mean preventing the AI from generating violent or illegal instructions, hate speech, or disinformation. SFU Guidance AI systems must be regularly reviewed to ensure reliability and safety. Auditing allows issues to be identified early and supports responsible oversight and continuous improvement. If you are using an AI solution, ensure results or content it generates adheres to legal commitments, code of ethics, or other responsibilities", "NOTE:\n\nSFU Guidance AI systems must be regularly reviewed to ensure reliability and safety. Auditing allows issues to be identified early and supports responsible oversight and continuous improvement. If you are using an AI solution, ensure results or content it generates adheres to legal commitments, code of ethics, or other responsibilities you have in your role at the university. It will be incumbent on you to audit your use of AI in a reliable and safe manner. AI itself cannot take responsibility. When developing and supporting AI solutions that will be used by others, understand your responsibility to maintain them in a reliable and safe manner. Establish regular audits and testing to ensure your AI solution does not cause harm (such as disinformation, hate speech, or violent/illegal instructions). Remain informed about the limitations of AI solutions you use and assess whether they are suitable for your use. AI systems can provide inaccurate results if they aren't built for your context. Inclusive AI should be designed to empower as many people as possible and avoid marginalizing any group . This principle emphasizes user-centric design \u2013 making AI accessible and useful to people with diverse backgrounds and abilities. For example, inclusive AI might involve ensuring that a voice assistant works for different accents and speech patterns, or that generative AI tools are available in many languages. In the context of responsible AI, inclusivity overlaps with fairness, but also encourages broad stakeholder input when designing AI (so that many perspectives are considered). SFU Guidance AI systems should be designed to serve people of all backgrounds and abilities. Inclusivity means considering diverse needs to promote accessibility, representation, and equal participation. Prioritize AI solutions that are designed to be accessible and supportive of people with diverse abilities, ensuring everyone can use and benefit from them. Avoid", "NOTE:\n\nAI systems should be designed to serve people of all backgrounds and abilities. Inclusivity means considering diverse needs to promote accessibility, representation, and equal participation. Prioritize AI solutions that are designed to be accessible and supportive of people with diverse abilities, ensuring everyone can use and benefit from them. Avoid AI marginalizing groups or individuals; ensure datasets and outputs reflect diversity and equity.", "OVERVIEW\n\nIf your computer is not connected to SFU Active Directory , you need to manually store your credentials using in order to use Papercut or SFU Print printers. Open Credential Manager Add a Windows Credential Add a Second Credential Verify", "NOTE:\n\nClick the thumbnail for a larger version of the image. 1. Open Credential Manager Click on the Start (Windows) button. Type in the search bar and open it. 2. Add a Windows Credential In Credential Manager, click Windows Credentials . Select Add a Windows credential .", "Internet or network address:\n\ncs-sfuprint.dc.sfu.ca", "User name:\n\nADSFU\\yourSFUComputingID (common mistake is to use one of these two formats \"User_ID@sfu.ca\" or just \"User_ID\") Password: The same password you use for your email access Click", "OK\n\n. 3. Add a Second Credential Repeat the same process to add another entry. In Credential Manager, click Windows Credentials . Select Add a Windows credential .", "Internet or network address:\n\ncs-sfuprint-p.dc.sfu.ca", "User name:\n\nADSFU\\yourSFUComputingID Password: The same password you use for your email access 4. Verify You should now see two entries in your Windows Credentials list for the print servers.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines how to install the Papercut Client on unmanaged Windows 11 computers. Open the Run Window Access the Installation Folder Start the Installer Complete the Installation Log In to Papercut Confirm the Client is Running", "NOTE:\n\nClick the thumbnail for a larger version of the image. 1. Open the Run Window Right click on Start (Windows) button. Select Run from the menu. 2. Access the Installation Folder In the Run box, Type \\\\cs-sfuprint.dc.sfu.ca\\PCClient . Press Enter . 3. Start the Installer In the folder that opens, double-click the win folder. Scroll down and find client-local-install . Double-click client-local-install to start the installation. 4. Complete the Installation", "When the installer opens:\n\nSelect I accept the agreement and click Next . Accept the default path for installation by clicking Next . Click Next again to confirm. Click Install . When the installation finishes, click Finish . 5. Log In to Papercut", "When prompted, enter:\n\nUsername: Your SFU Computing ID, e.g. kipling@sfu.ca Password: The same password you use for your email access. Click", "OK\n\n. 6. Confirm the Client is Running Look for the Papercut icon in the system tray (bottom-right corner of your screen). If you don\u2019t see it, click the up arrow to show hidden icons.", "OVERVIEW\n\nFollow the steps below to learn how to install the Ricoh PCL6 Universal Driver on Windows 11 computers. Prepare the Driver Files Open Print Management Add the Driver Locate the Driver Complete Installation", "NOTE:\n\nClick the thumbnail for a larger version of the image. 1. Prepare the Driver Files Create a folder named", "TMP\n\non your desktop. Go to the location where you saved the Papercut client files. Find the file named PCL6_UniversalDriver_4.31 . Copy this file. Paste the PCL6_UniversalDriver_4.31 file into your", "TMP\n\nfolder on the desktop. Right-click the copied file and select Extract All... Accept the default location and click Extract . 2. Open Print Management Click the Start (Windows) button. Type Print Management in the search bar and open app. 3. Add the Driver In Print Management, expand Print Servers . Under your computer name, right-click Drivers and select Add Driver... Click Next . Select x64 and click Next . Click Have Disk... 4. Locate the Driver Click on Browse .", "Navigate to:\n\nC:\\Users\\<your_user_id>\\Desktop\\TMP\\PCL6_UniversalDriver_4.31\\Files. Select oemsetup and click Open . Click", "OK\n\n. 5. Complete Installation Select RICOH PCL6 UniversalDriver V4.31 from the list. Click Next . Click Finish . Your driver should be installed and listed.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis guide describes how to install a printer on Windows 11. Open the Run Window Enter the Network Path Connect the Printer", "NOTE:\n\nClick the thumbnail for a larger version of the image. 1. Open the Run Window Right-click on Start (Windows) button. Select Run . 2. Enter the Network Path", "In the Run box, type:\n\n\\\\cs-sfuprint-p.dc.sfu.ca\\ Click", "OK\n\n. 3. Connect to the Printer", "in the window that opens, find the printer named:\n\nSFU_Print_non_AD_auth Right-click and select Connect...", "Note: Prior to printing your Papercut Client must be running. Open your Notepad or any other text editor. Type \"Test\" Select File -- >Print In case you have more than one printer installed make sure \"SFU_Print_non_AD_auth on cs-sfuprint-p...\" is selected and click on \"Print\" You should see Papercut authentication pop-up. Enter <Your_User_ID> and password and click \"OK\" Your document should be in the print queue You can go to the Ricoh printer, login and release your job.", "Administrative and Business Overview Conversational AI Chatbot is a TeamDynamix product that offers a simple and efficient way to provide IT information to users across the university. This AI chatbot, nicknamed \u201cSimon Says\u201d, extends support to users beyond regular Service Desk operating hours. As a result, users will have the ability to find answers to their IT questions whenever they need help. This implementation aligns with the university\u2019s Virtual Assistant Strategy and AI Strategy . What\u2019s Changing? Who is affected? Next Steps The chatbot is available 24/7 to assist users. It is designed for those who are looking to get answers without needing to navigate through a number of articles or contact IT Services directly. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) When is the chatbot launching? Do I Need to login with my computing ID to use the chatbot? No, you can click \u201cCancel Authentication\u201d and use the bot without signing in. Note that when you are signed in, you will be able to view more information from the Knowledge Base that is only accessible to SFU faculty, staff and students. Can I sign in with my sponsored account to use the bot? Yes, you can sign in with your sponsored account. Note that any tickets created or conversation history will be tied to that account. If you are prompted to sign into a service that does not support sponsored accounts like FINS or myINFO, you will need to login with a personal computing ID to access it. Is there a way to view my previously submitted tickets using the chatbot? Yes, you can view your previously submitted IT tickets if you login with your SFU credentials. Select the \u201cView Submitted Tickets\u201d button featured on the welcome menu and it will show you any open tickets on your account. It will not", "to view my previously submitted tickets using the chatbot? Yes, you can view your previously submitted IT tickets if you login with your SFU credentials. Select the \u201cView Submitted Tickets\u201d button featured on the welcome menu and it will show you any open tickets on your account. It will not search through any closed or resolved tickets. Is there a way to chat with a real person through the chatbot? No, there is no option for live chat at this time. The bot asked me to contact Service Desk to Resolve my Issue. Do I still need to submit a ticket? Yes, you can submit a ticket using the bot. If it is urgent, please visit our Service Desk in person or call via phone. Please note our operation hours are listed here . Where is the chatbot Searching for information? The chatbot searches for information in the SFU IT Knowledge Base, limited SFU website pages, and linked guides to respond to inquiries. Any articles, links and attachments on the Knowledge Base are used by the bot to retrieve information. I can't find the information I Need in the chatbot. What should I do? Please leave feedback at the end of your conversation and submit a ticket for IT support. If the bot is providing inaccurate information, contact the chatbot support team here so we can investigate this issue. Can I leave Feedback for the bot? Yes, at the end of your conversation, kindly let the bot know if it was helpful or if you were able to find the information you were searching for. Any other feedback for the bot can be submitted here: Chatbot \u2013 Submit Question Submit Chatbot Questions or Feedback", "OVERVIEW\n\nSFU Print on Ricoh printers offer a number of ways you can log into the system and use functions of the printer. A personal ID, like your SFU Computing ID or programmed FOB, is another way of logging in to release print jobs, scan or copy. This article describes how to set your personal ID as an alternative means of logging into an SFU Print device should you have forgotten your FOB or want to avoid typing your SFU Computing ID and password.", "NOTE:\n\nClick the thumbnail for a larger version of the image.", "1. To generate personal ID number please go to:\n\nhttps://cs-sfuprint.dc.sfu.ca:9192/user Use your SFU Computing ID and password to log in. 2. When you log in click on \"Change Details\". 3. Click on \"Generate number\" button and your unique printing ID will be shown. 4. Now you can use this printing ID to log in to any Ricoh device instead of your user ID and password. Tap on \"ID number\" 5. Enter your unique number and tap \"Log in\" At this point you should be logged in your account and see print jobs ready to be released.", "Overview This article explains how some macOS users may experience issues connecting to the", "This problem can be caused by a cached 802.1X certificate stored in the system configuration. Details Prerequisites Ensure that SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam are not known/saved networks on the device (see How to forget a Wi-Fi network on iPhone, iPad, Mac, or Apple Vision Pro ) Ensure that the SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam Wi-Fi profiles have been removed Open System Settings > Network > > Advanced . If a 802.1x certificate exists and can't be removed, proceed with the following below: Simple Method Before proceeding with the advanced method, you may be able to remove the certificate by doing the following: Go to the Keychain Access app on your Mac. To open Keychain Access, search for it in Spotlight, then press Return. Select either the login or System keychain. Search for \"802.1x\" and remove the entry Advanced Method If the entry doesn't exist or can't be removed, you can try the following (may require administrative access to the device): Open the System Configuration Folder Open Finder . From the top menu, click Go \u2192 Go to Folder... Enter the following path and click Go", ":\n\n/Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration/ Locate the 802.1X Configuration File", "Find the file named:\n\ncom.apple.network.eapolclient.configuration.plist If this file is missing, look for any file containing 8021x or eapol in its name. Rename the Configuration File Rename the file by appending .bak", "to the filename:\n\ncom.apple.network.eapolclient.configuration.plist.bak You may be prompted to enter your administrator password to complete this action. Restart the Mac Reboot your Mac to apply the changes. Reconnect to SFUNET\u2011SECURE After restarting, reconnect to the", "SFUNET\u2011SECURE\n\nnetwork. Accept the new certificate when prompted. Overview This article explains how some macOS users may experience issues connecting to the", "SFUNET\u2011SECURE\n\nWi-Fi network, even when using correct credentials and no Wi-Fi profiles are installed. This problem can be caused by a cached 802.1X certificate stored in the system configuration.", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article provides instructions on how to use migrate a credit course as part of the transition to Canvas Cloud . If you're looking for instructions to migrate a non-academic course, see How to migrate a Non-Academic Course . What is a credit course? Before You Migrate Understand which content can be migrated Determine if your course is appropriate for migrating How to Migrate Next Steps", "WHAT IS A CREDIT COURSE?\n\nCredit courses in Canvas are instructional offerings that are tied to a degree or certificate academic program. These courses in Canvas are automatically populated with students.", "TIP\n\nInstructors teaching in Spring 2026 can find their credit course shell on the Canvas Cloud Dashboard starting September 2025. Credit course shells will now appear automatically on their Canvas Cloud Dashboard once assigned in goSFU \u2014 instructors don\u2019t need to request one using the 'Start a New Course' tool. For details, see Changes to Credit Course Shell Creation .", "1) UNDERSTAND WHICH CONTENT CAN BE MIGRATED\n\nWhen selecting a course to migrate using the course migration tool ( migrate.its.sfu.ca ), the following items will or won't automatically transfer to Canvas Cloud. Can Migrate Unable to Migrate Course Content Announcements Assignments, files, modules and pages Discussion topics Question banks and quizzes Rubrics Syllabus body Most course settings and LTIs Calendar events Student work Assignment submissions Quiz submissions and results Discussion replies (discussion topics will migrate, but replies do not) Grades Enrolment-related data Course users and roles Collaborations and sections Conferences Groups and group sets Other Feature option settings LTI configurations, secrets and keys (including H5P key) Location details on calendar events Referenced media or links (content that is referenced from another course) Custom HTML or Javascript may break Embeded SVG images", "REMINDER ABOUT PROFILE DATA\n\nProfile data cannot be migrated automatically. If you wish to keep any profile data, you will need to manually re-add the profile data on Canvas Cloud. This includes: ePortfolio, biography, inbox messages, profile files, profile photo, profile customizations and settings.", "2) DETERMINE IF YOUR COURSE IS APPROPRIATE FOR MIGRATING\n\nMigrate to Canvas Cloud Do Not Migrate (Move or Forget) Courses that contain content you wish to keep and reuse for a future iteration of the course Courses that are currently running and have an end date beyond January 2026 Courses used only for storage, record keeping or backup Courses used for research or containing research data Courses that contain content you no longer need Sandbox and test courses Tip: Use Microsoft 365 tools (OneDrive, SharePoint, Teams) for stronger file protection and recovery than Canvas.", "NOTE\n\n: Provided above are some general guidelines. Instructors are the experts on what courses and course content they wish to maintain. If your course content is still needed and requires Canvas features, migrate the course to Canvas Cloud.", "NON-ACADEMIC COURSE MIGRATION\n\nIf your course is non-academic (training, orientation, activity-type course), visit How to migrate a Non-Academic Course to help you better understand key considerations and potential impacts.", "HOW TO MIGRATE\n\nAs long as the course instructional content won't be changing (i.e., no newly created modules, assignments, pages, quizzes, etc.), you're free to migrate at any time. If you are teaching in Spring 2026, we recommend migrating your course early to ensure that you have sufficient time to complete 'next steps' before the launch in January 2026. IT Services has a course migration tool to support course migration, along with guides to support its use:", "STEP 1.\n\nVisit the course migration tool at migrate.its.sfu.ca or select the button. You may be asked to sign in with your SFU Computing ID .", "STEP 2.\n\nSelect the Canvas course you wish to migrate to Canvas Cloud on the drop-down menu. If you don't see your course, try Refresh List .", "STEP 3.\n\nSelect Submit Query .", "STEP 4.\n\nSelect Confirm .", "STEP 5.\n\nThe tool will begin migrating your course behind the scenes. Migrating large courses may be delayed during peak times. You can choose to leave the page and return to the course migration tool at migrate.its.sfu.ca . Once the progress is complete, a web link will be displayed that directs you to the migrated course on Canvas Cloud. You can also find the migrated course under Courses > All Courses in Canvas Cloud.", "NOTES\n\nThe course migration tool will remain available for the foreseeable future (until Canvas On-Premise has been completely deprecated). The course migration tool is accessible to any SFU user. However, courses will only appear in the tool if the user has an 'instructor' role to those courses. Recently created courses (or courses you've recently been given instructor role) may not appear immediately. Try selecting 'Refresh List' after a few minutes. When a course is migrated from Canvas On-Premise, it will remain as-is and continues to be accessible to you. 'Course migration' simply copies your course from Canvas On-Premise to Canvas Cloud using the built-in 'export' feature on Canvas. It is possible for a course can be migrated multiple times and by multiple people if a course has more than one instructor. 'Course migration' simply creates a copy and assigns the user who initiated the migration access to the copied course. This process bar should not take more than a few minutes to complete for smaller courses (less than 50 MB). Larger courses (over 500 MB) can possibly take 30 minutes or more during peak periods. For technical support, request a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' ' as the area of help)", "After you have migrated your course:\n\nReview the course for any issues and make necessary adjustments. In rare cases, links to media files or third-party tools (LTIs) may not transfer correctly and may need to be manually updated. Some modules or pages may not retain its 'published/unpublished' state. Copy or import the content from your migrated course to your official course shell. This allows you to adjust terms, dates and more on assignments and announcements. Instructors teaching in Spring 2026 can find their credit course shell on the Canvas Cloud Dashboard starting September 2025. Credit course shells will now appear automatically on their Canvas Cloud Dashboard once assigned in goSFU \u2014 instructors don\u2019t need to request one using the 'Start a New Course' tool. For details, see Changes to Credit Course Shell Creation . Please note that students will be automatically added at the start of class in Spring 2026. Explore New Quizzes. You have the option to convert your quizzes from Classic Quizzes to New Quizzes . Please note that once a Classic Quiz converted to a New Quiz, it cannot be reverted. Learn more about feature differences between Canvas On-Premise and Canvas Cloud .", "NON-ACADEMIC COURSE MIGRATION\n\nIf you're migrating a course that is non-academic (training, orientation, activity-type course), visit How to migrate a Non-Academic Course to help you better understand key considerations and potential impacts.", "For questions about Canvas migration:\n\nVisit our Canvas Migration FAQs .", "For pedagogical or instructional design questions:\n\nContact ceehelp@sfu.ca.", "For additional assistance or technical support:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' ' as the area of help) Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article provides instructions on how to migrate your non-academic courses as part of the transition to Canvas Cloud . If you're looking for instructions to migrate a credit course, see How to migrate a Credit Course . What is a non-academic course? What should I do? For non-academic courses with a completion date For non-academic courses that are permanently running For other types of non-academic courses Before you migrate How to migrate Next steps for non-academic courses Exceptions for course continuity on Canvas On-Premise", "WHAT IS A NON-ACADEMIC COURSE?\n\nNon-academic courses in Canvas are instructional offerings that are not tied to a degree or certificate academic program. Typically, these are designed to facilitate: Training, programs or orientation as a course in Canvas Student club or extra-curricular activities as a course in Canvas Event or workshop as a course in Canvas And more...", "WHAT SHOULD I DO?\n\nWhether or not you should migrate your non-academic Canvas course depends on many factors, including the type and duration of the course. Determine which case your course best matches with and take the corresponding action. Below are three categorized types of non-academic courses: Non-academic courses with a completion date Non-academic courses that are permanently running Other types of non-academic courses", "TIP\n\nTry using our Non-Academic Course Migration Guide to see what you should do (approx. 1 - 2 min.).", "FOR NON-ACADEMIC COURSES WITH A COMPLETION DATE\n\nExample Courses SFU 101: Spring 2025 Job Search Success \u2013 Fall 2025 Leadership Foundation Program 2025-26 Training 2025WHIMIS Student Ambassador Program 2024-2025 SFU JDC West 2025 WHAT I SHOULD DO (click to expand) Case Action to take If the course ends before Dec 2025... Continue running the course until completion on Canvas On-Premise. If you plan to re-use content for a future iteration... Migrate and run future iterations in Canvas Cloud. If the course is running beyond Jan 2026 and existing student assignment submissions, quiz submissions or discussion replies are not critical to course delivery... Migrate and continue the course in Canvas Cloud. If the course is running beyond Jan 2026 and existing student assignments submissions, quiz submissions or discussion replies are critical to course delivery... Review if the course is an exception for course continuity on Canvas On-Premise . Note : Existing student work cannot be migrated to Canvas Cloud using the course migration tool .", "FOR NON-ACADEMIC COURSES THAT ARE PERMANENTLY RUNNING\n\nExample Courses MMC: 3D Printing Learning Pathways VPFA Employees Returning from Study Abroad 101 Community Engagement Volunteer Training 4D Labs Safety Training SEE Co-op SkillBuilder WHAT I SHOULD DO (click to expand) Case Action to take If the course is still running or content is still needed... Migrate and continue the course in Canvas Cloud. If the course is no longer running or content is no longer needed... Leave as-is.", "COURSES USED FOR CONTENT STORAGE, RESEARCH DATA, RECORD KEEPING OR SHARED RESOURCES\n\nExamples Courses Writing Resources Interview Tip Job Descriptions at SFU Teaching Resources and Policy High School Outreach Portfolio FAS Graduate Program Coordinator Manual WHAT I SHOULD DO (click to expand) Case Action to take If the audience is primarily staff or faculty... Switch to a more befitting service, such as SharePoint or", "AEM\n\n. See Choosing a Document and Content Management Tool at SFU . If the audience is primarily students, or it requires features in Canvas... Migrate and continue the course in Canvas Cloud.", "COURSES USED FOR RESEARCH GROUPS, WORKING OR INTEREST GROUPS, DISCUSSION FORUMS, COMMUNITIES OR COMMITTEES\n\nExample Courses Experiential Learning Community of Practice NVivo User Community Indigenous Knowledge Holders In-No-Particular-Order: Discussions on Interdisciplinarity CREATE HyTEM Program Committee Elders and Community Members WHAT I SHOULD DO (click to expand) Case Action to take If only staff or faculty are involved... Switch to a more befitting service, such as Microsoft Teams . See Choosing a Document and Content Management Tool at SFU . If students or non-SFU individuals are involved, or it requires features in Canvas... Migrate and continue the course in Canvas Cloud.", "NOTE\n\n: Provided above are some general guidelines. Instructors are the experts on what courses and course content they wish to maintain. If your course content is still needed and requires Canvas features, migrate the course to Canvas Cloud.", "BEFORE YOU MIGRATE\n\nWhen selecting a course to migrate using the course migration tool ( migrate.its.sfu.ca ), the following items will or won't automatically transfer to Canvas Cloud. Can Migrate Unable to Migrate Course Content Announcements Assignments, files, modules and pages Discussion topics Question banks and quizzes Rubrics Syllabus body Most course settings and LTIs Calendar events Student work Assignment submissions Quiz submissions and results Discussion replies (discussion topics will migrate, but replies do not) Grades Enrolment-related data Course users and roles Collaborations and sections Conferences Groups and group sets Other Feature option settings LTI configurations, secrets and keys (including H5P key) Location details on calendar events Referenced media or links (content that is referenced from another course) Custom HTML or Javascript may break Embeded SVG images", "REMINDER ABOUT PROFILE DATA\n\nProfile data cannot be migrated automatically. If you wish to keep any profile data, you will need to manually re-add the profile data on Canvas Cloud. This includes: ePortfolio, biography, inbox messages, profile files, profile photo, profile customizations and settings.", "HOW TO MIGRATE\n\nAs long as the course instructional content won't be changing (i.e., no newly created modules, assignments, pages, quizzes, etc.), you're free to migrate at any time. We recommend migrating your course early to ensure that you have sufficient time to complete 'next steps' before the launch in January 2026. IT Services has a course migration tool to support course migration, along with guides to support its use:", "STEP 1.\n\nVisit the course migration tool at migrate.its.sfu.ca or select the button. You may be asked to sign in with your SFU Computing ID .", "STEP 2.\n\nSelect the Canvas course you wish to migrate to Canvas Cloud on the drop-down menu. If you don't see your course, try Refresh List .", "STEP 3.\n\nSelect Submit Query .", "STEP 4.\n\nSelect Confirm .", "STEP 5.\n\nThe tool will begin migrating your course behind the scenes. Migrating large courses may be delayed during peak times. You can choose to leave the page and return to the course migration tool at migrate.its.sfu.ca . Once the progress is complete, a web link will be displayed that directs you to the migrated course on Canvas Cloud. You can also find the migrated course under Courses > All Courses in Canvas Cloud.", "NOTES\n\nThe course migration tool will remain available for the foreseeable future (until Canvas On-Premise has been completely deprecated). The course migration tool is accessible to any SFU user. However, courses will only appear in the tool if the user has an 'instructor' role to those courses. Recently created courses (or courses you've recently been given instructor role) may not appear immediately. Try selecting 'Refresh List' after a few minutes. When a course is migrated from Canvas On-Premise, it will remain as-is and continues to be accessible to you. 'Course migration' simply copies your course from Canvas On-Premise to Canvas Cloud using the built-in 'export' feature on Canvas. It is possible for a course can be migrated multiple times and by multiple people if a course has more than one instructor. 'Course migration' simply creates a copy and assigns the user who initiated the migration access to the copied course. This process bar should not take more than a few minutes to complete for smaller courses (less than 50 MB). Larger courses (over 500 MB) can possibly take 30 minutes or more during peak periods. For technical support, request a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' ' as the area of help)", "After you have migrated your course:\n\nReview the course for any issues and make necessary adjustments. In rare cases, links to media files or third-party tools (LTIs) may not transfer correctly and may need to be manually updated. Some modules or pages may not retain its 'published/unpublished' state. Copy or import the content from your migrated course to a new course shell. This allows you to adjust terms, dates and more on assignments and announcements. You can create a new course shell using the Start a New Course tool. Alternatively, you can simply rename and re-purpose the migrated course shell. Explore New Quizzes. You have the option to convert your quizzes from Classic Quizzes to New Quizzes . Please note that once a Classic Quiz converted to a New Quiz, it cannot be reverted. Re-add users (students, instructors, designers) to your course. Enrolment-related data (i.e., roles, groups, etc.) are not transferred when migrating a course. For instructions on re-adding your students, visit How to migrate Users to another course . If you encounter an error, \"We were unable to find matches below\", simply select 'Next' to skip the user(s). Do not select any check boxes (refrain from creating them as new users). See How to migrate Users to another course for details on this error. Configuring your course in such a way that students can continue progressing through the course without past student work (i.e., quiz submissions, assignments, discussion replies, etc.) since student work can't be migrated (if applicable to your course). For example, you may want to remove module restrictions/prerequisites tied to assignments or quizzes if asking students to redo them is not an option. Notify your students in January 2026 on any important changes to the course (if applicable to your course). If needed for your course, canvas-old.sfu.ca is available starting January 2026 to", "After you have migrated your course:\n\nwant to remove module restrictions/prerequisites tied to assignments or quizzes if asking students to redo them is not an option. Notify your students in January 2026 on any important changes to the course (if applicable to your course). If needed for your course, canvas-old.sfu.ca is available starting January 2026 to access past course content. Learn more about feature differences between Canvas On-Premise and Canvas Cloud .", "COURSES USING MAILLISTS FOR AUTOMATIC ENROLMENTS (MAILLIST INTEGRATION)\n\nAs of April 30, 2025, SFU Maillist has been transitioned to SFU Groups . If you are migrating a course that has automatic enrolments via maillists and would like to continue using this feature, you will need to request an SFU Groups security group as a replacement for the maillist. Once you have a security group, request a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help for us to connect that security group to your course on Canvas Cloud. Note: Grouper integration with Canvas Cloud will be available late Fall 2025. We suggest you prepare a security group ahead of time.", "EXCEPTIONS FOR COURSE CONTINUITY ON CANVAS ON-PREMISE\n\nDue to technical limitations with Canvas, student work tied to a course cannot be transferred to Canvas Cloud using the course migration tool. These components include: Assignment submissions Quiz submissions and results Discussion replies If existing student work is critical to the delivery of your non-academic course and cannot be moved over manually, it may be more appropriate to continue running the course on Canvas On-Premise until its conclusion. We advise against this approach as it may cause unnecessary disruption for students who would need to navigate between two separate Canvas platforms. Examples where this option may be considered can be a course with: A large number of students have already submitted assignments or quizzes which are linked with unlocking modules and altering this is not an option. A large number of students have already submitted assignments or quizzes which continually need to be used throughout the course delivery A large number of posted discussions and replies that are critical to continuing the course delivery and manually copying these over to a new course shell is not feasible.", "THIS APPLIES TO MY COURSE. WHAT SHOULD I KNOW?\n\nIf you choose to continue delivering the non-academic course on Canvas On-Premise, you should know the following: Platform Transition Impacts Starting January 2026, the web link, canvas.sfu.ca, will redirect to Canvas Cloud. To access Canvas On-Premise, users must use the updated web link: canvas-old.sfu.ca. Service Reduction In 2026, Canvas On-Premise will be scaled back and run at a lower capacity as most usage will have moved to Canvas Cloud. Due to software licensing changes, there will also be recurring service outages in order to apply updates and security fixes. Student Communication Required You\u2019ll need to proactively inform students of your decision to remain on Canvas On-Premise, only particular to your course. You will also need to inform students of the updated web link. Clear communication will help minimize confusion and ensure continued access to course materials. Course End Date Courses that choose to continue on Canvas On-Premise must be concluded before the end of December 2026. After this date, access to this platform should only be for temporary archival purposes.", "For questions about Canvas migration:\n\nVisit our Canvas Migration FAQs .", "For pedagogical or instructional design questions:\n\nContact ceehelp@sfu.ca.", "For additional assistance or technical support:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' ' as the area of help)", "Administrative and Business Find the red [...]> icon on the bottom right-hand corner of the screen and click it to start \"Simon Says\u201d. Select one of the support topics listed or manually type your question directly into the chat window. For best results, keep your questions clear and concise. Phrasing it a short sentence or prompt will give you the best results. Review the response provided by the chatbot. If you need further clarification or different information, you can ask follow-up questions. If Simon Says does not understand your question, it may ask for clarification. If it cannot find an answer, it will provide options from the Knowledge Base articles. The bot may prompt you to complete a form or submit a ticket if your question requires further IT support. Forms and tickets can be submitted directly through the bot. If the bot cannot provide a satisfactory answer, consider rephrasing or simplifying your question. If that does not work, your inquiry may require further support from Service Desk. You can close the chat window at any time or type \u201cEnd\u201d to finish the conversation. To help us improve the chatbot in the future, please rate your conversation when the bot asks, \u201cDid I answer your question okay?\". Your feedback is greatly appreciated in helping us making the bot the best it can be! Asking the Chatbot Questions Effectively Use clear and simple language so the bot can narrow down your question accurately. Provide context to your question if needed. The bot may ask you to select an option from a list of choices or to clarify your question further by typing more information. Remember that the chatbot is constantly learning as the Knowledge Base is updated. Topic Instead of Typing... Try Asking... Password or Login \u201cI tried logging on three", "bot may ask you to select an option from a list of choices or to clarify your question further by typing more information. Remember that the chatbot is constantly learning as the Knowledge Base is updated. Topic Instead of Typing... Try Asking... Password or Login \u201cI tried logging on three times and it\u2019s not working. How do I resolve this?\u201d \u201cHow can I reset my password?\u201d or \u201cI need help logging in\u201d Groups or Grouper \u201cI don\u2019t have access to the email list I created in 2023, where is it?\u201d \u201cHow can I access my old SFU maillists?\u201d Lecture Recording \u201cI\u2019m in Burnaby and can\u2019t figure out if lecture recording is possible here\u201d \u201cI need help with lecture recording in my classroom\u201d", "Questions about Simon Says? Feel free to submit them here:\n\nChatbot - Ask Question", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to migrate users to another course as part of the transition to Canvas Cloud . How to migrate users", "NOTE\n\n: These instructions is intended to be used with non-academic courses and will only migrate users with a 'student' role . We recommend adding users with 'teacher' or other roles manually. Credit course should have its students automatically added.", "STEP 1\n\n. Visit Grades section on the Canvas course you wish to migrate users from. If you're on a different Gradebook View, select Individual Gradebook on the top-left corner, then select Traditional Gradebook .", "STEP 2.\n\nSelect Export > Export Entire Gradebook", "STEP 3\n\n. Open the downloaded spreadsheet file. Select and copy the list of SIS Login IDs .", "STEP 4\n\n. Visit People section on the Canvas Cloud course you wish to add users to. Then, select +People button.", "STEP 5.\n\nChange the Add user(s) by to Login ID and paste the list of SIS Login IDs you previously copied. Then, select Next .", "NOTE\n\n: If you encounter an error, \"We were unable to find matches below\", simply select 'Next'. Do not select any check boxes (refrain from creating them as new users) . Creating them as new users will cause log in issues for these SFU accounts. SFU accounts that aren't active at SFU will cause this error, such as an alumni. As a work around, ask the individual to log into canvas-new.sfu.ca . Alternatively, you may contact technical support to address the issue directly on a specific user. A permanent solution is currently being investigated.", "STEP 6.\n\nSelect Add Users .", "STEP 7\n\n. Congratulations! You've added users from another course. They will be able to access the course and accept the invitation as a student.", "For questions about Canvas migration:\n\nVisit our Canvas Migration FAQs .", "For pedagogical or instructional design questions:\n\nContact ceehelp@sfu.ca.", "For additional assistance or technical support:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' ' as the area of help) Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management Canvas", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the changes to credit course shell creation on Canvas Cloud as part of the transition to Canvas Cloud .", "BY REQUEST\n\nInstructors would've needed to request the course shell themselves using the Start a New Course tool. Once requested, it will be created and available to the instructor. For some departments, staff would've requested these courses on behalf of instructors to assist with the course setup or on-boarding. In some cases, instructors cannot request their course shell because it was already requested/claimed by another individual. The instructor would've needed to contact IT Services to reclaim it.", "CROSS-LISTING\n\nInstructors can choose to cross-list their courses using the Start a New Course tool if their courses haven't already been requested/claimed. Alternatively, instructors can contact IT Services to cross-list their course.", "AUTOMATIC\n\nCredit course shells no longer need to be requested. Credit course shells will automatically appear on the Canvas Dashboard for instructors one semester prior to the start of class. For example, if an instructor is assigned to teach a course in Spring 2026, their course shell will be automatically be created and assigned to them at the beginning of September 2025.", "BY REQUEST\n\nThe Start a New Course tool remains available along with all of its features. For departments who requested courses on behalf of instructors, they may continue to request course shells ahead of time to assist instructors. As before, course shells can be requested two semesters prior to the start of class.", "CROSS-LISTING\n\nThe process for cross-listing remains mostly unchanged. Instructors can continue to cross-list their courses using the Start a New Course tool if their courses haven't already been requested/claimed. Because of the automatic course creation, we recommend creating cross-listings with the Start a New Course tool before one semester prior to the start of class if possible. If their course shells have already been created by the automatic course shell process, instructors can contact IT Services to cross-list their course.", "STUDENT ENROLMENT\n\nFor Spring 2026 credit course shells: students will be automatically added at the start of class (January 2026). For Summer 2026 and future credit course shells: students will be automatically added within 24 hours of creation.", "BEHIND THE SCENES\n\nCanvas Cloud automatically creates and assigns course shells to instructors based on goSFU as long as an instructor has been assigned to teach a course by departmental staff. This happens to courses one semester prior to the start of the course. The system runs this creation process for Canvas Cloud once a day.", "WHEN NO INSTRUCTOR IS ASSIGNED\n\nIf no specific instructor (or a placeholder) has been assigned to a course on goSFU, the automatic course creation will not happen to those courses until one is assigned.", "WHEN THE INSTRUCTOR CHANGES\n\nAssuming that course shell has already been automatically created and a new instructor is assigned in goSFU, when the system find that the user with the instructor role on the course shell is different from the assigned instructor on goSFU, the system will automatically add the new instructor. Any existing users with the instructor role in that course shell will not be removed when the instructor is assigned.", "WHEN THE COURSE SHELL ALREADY EXISTS\n\nIf a course shell has already been requested (and created) via the Start a New Course tool, when the Automatic Course Shell Creation starts at the beginning of the semester, the system will look at goSFU data and check if the assigned instructor has already been added to the course shell. If the instructor is not in the course shell, the system will automatically add the instructor to the existing course shell and will appear on their dashboard. Any existing users with the instructor role in that course shell will not be removed when the instructor is assigned.", "For questions about Canvas migration:\n\nVisit our Canvas Migration FAQs .", "For pedagogical or instructional design questions:\n\nContact ceehelp@sfu.ca.", "For additional assistance or technical support:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' Migration ' as the area of help) Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "Teaching and Learning Learning Management Canvas", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes storage limits and how storage is used in Canvas Cloud as part of the transition to Canvas Cloud . Changes to Storage Quota Storage use in Canvas Cloud Requests for Additional Storage", "CHANGES TO STORAGE QUOTA\n\nAs part of the transition to Canvas Cloud, storage quotas have been reduced to align with Instructure\u2019s recommended limits to promote more efficient resource usage. This change helps manage the cloud storage allocation compared to the previous on-premise setup, encourages the use of external platforms for large media files and improves overall system performance. We've ensured that nearly all courses fit within the new quotas, with support available for any exceptions.", "CANVAS CLOUD\n\nCourse Storage Quota", "0.5 GB\n\nPersonal Storage Quota", "0.05 GB\n\nGroup Storage Quota", "0.05 GB\n\nLearn more about feature differences between Canvas On-Premise and Canvas Cloud .", "COURSE STORAGE\n\nThe default storage limit for courses on Canvas Cloud is", ". The following items in Canvas contribute towards this quota:\n\nFiles attached to announcements and pages. Files uploaded directly into \"Files\" on courses. File submissions to graded assignments in courses. Files attached to graded discussions topics and its replies in courses.", "GROUP STORAGE\n\nThe default storage limit for groups on Canvas Cloud is", ". The following items in Canvas contribute towards this quota:\n\nAny content created on the Canvas group. Files uploaded onto the Canvas group.", "PERSONAL STORAGE\n\nThe default storage limit for users on Canvas Cloud is", ". The following items in Canvas contribute towards this quota:\n\nFiles uploaded directly into \"Files\" on your profile. Files uploaded directly into your ePortfolio. File submissions to ungraded assignments in courses. Files attached to ungraded discussions topics and its replies in courses. Files attached to sent messages in conversations (Inbox). Received messages with attached files will not contribute towards your own quota.", "NO STORAGE INVOLVED\n\nThe following items in Canvas does not contribute towards any quota: Uploads using the Upload/Record Media tool in Canvas. The tool is accessible on the text editor when editing pages, assignment, discussions and more. Zoom Recordings that are saved and listed in the Zoom > Cloud Recordings on courses. These are tied to instructors' SFU Zoom account which they can manage at https://sfu.zoom.us/recording/ . Note : Cloud recordings will be deleted automatically after they have been stored for 365 day(s).", "REQUESTS FOR ADDITIONAL STORAGE\n\nWe want to ensure that instructors have the resources they need to deliver their courses while also maintaining efficient use of the Canvas Cloud environment. For instructors, if your course requires more storage than the default quota, you can request an increase by submitting a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . Requests will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the specific needs and nature of your course content.", "For questions about Canvas migration:\n\nVisit our Canvas Migration FAQs .", "For pedagogical or instructional design questions:\n\nContact ceehelp@sfu.ca.", "For additional assistance or technical support:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Canvas - Request Help . (Select ' Migration ' as the area of help) Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "Information Security Security Consulting and Education", "OVERVIEW\n\nThe SFU Privacy Management Program has established a process to assess the risks of Personal or Confidential information being improperly disclosed and used when working with software applications that incorporate AI tools. Assessed AI Applications Concerns and considerations when using AI applications that do not have an SFU PIA Subject-specific contacts Definitions Assessed AI Applications The table below lists the AI applications that have been assessed and found safe to use provided that users comply with the specific privacy, information security, and intellectual property guidance provided by SFU. Application Type SFU Authorized Uses Who can use it Copilot Chat https://www.sfu.ca/copilot General purpose AI assistant Productivity assistant for work, study, and research at SFU, learning and teaching tool, no personal information should be entered into the AI Assistant without the consent of the person to whom such information pertains. SFU wide Microsoft 365 Copilot https://www.sfu.ca/m365copilot Personal AI Assistant, Advanced faculty/staff productivity assistant, and pedagogical enhancement (not for student assessment)", "SFU\n\nfaculty and staff \u2013 Available upon request Chat GPT AI Assistant, AI Text Generator (LLLM) Pedagogical purposes in SFU courses SFU wide Ednius AI text generator (LLM) Pilot AI grading program Unit Specific \u2013 Beedie School of Business Run Diffusion AI art generator Creative/media course use only; not for ID photos or official branding Unit Specific \u2013 School of Interactive Arts and Technology (SIAT)", ":\n\nIf you are using an AI-enabled tool that is not included in the above table to process personal information, there is a possibility that a privacy breach may have occurred. In such cases, contact privacy@sfu.ca . To request a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) for an AI-enabled tool, please see the overview and forms here: Privacy Impact Assessments Concerns and considerations when using AI applications that do not have an SFU PIA When using an AI application that does not have an SFU PIA as indicated in the above table, always keep in mind these six considerations: Unauthorized data collection BC\u2019s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA) strictly prohibits unauthorized collection, use and disclosure of Personal information. The scope of \u201cPersonal information\u201d is fairly broad, and includes information such as name, image, marital or family status, unique identifying numbers, demographic information (gender, race, ethnicity, religion), educational history, employment history and job performance, personal contact information, financial history, medical history, disability status, an individual's recorded personal views or opinions, and anyone else's recorded views and opinions about an individual. The ease of accidentally using or disclosing personal data is a significant concern, especially if the data is used for purposes beyond what the user initially agreed to at the original point of collection, such as unwanted targeted advertising or profile generation. Surveillance and tracking AI applications can be used for monitoring individuals online and in the physical world, raising significant concerns about mass surveillance and loss of privacy. Data that you enter into GenAI-enabled software applications can be used to deliver highly targeted advertisements, influence decision-making (e.g., what content you see), or even predict future behaviour. In some cases, this tracking extends beyond the application itself, following users across websites and devices using tracking pixels, cookies, and device fingerprints.", ":\n\nthat you enter into GenAI-enabled software applications can be used to deliver highly targeted advertisements, influence decision-making (e.g., what content you see), or even predict future behaviour. In some cases, this tracking extends beyond the application itself, following users across websites and devices using tracking pixels, cookies, and device fingerprints. Data breaches and leaks AI systems often store and analyze large datasets. Therefore, they are attractive targets for hackers and cybercriminals. If an AI system containing medical, educational, or financial information is breached, Personal or Confidential information could be exposed. This threatens individual privacy and can lead to identity theft and financial fraud. Report such breaches to Information Security Services via SFU ServiceHub and the Privacy Management Program . Automated decision-making and loss of human oversight AI can improve efficiency and decision-making, but excessive reliance on AI without human oversight can have serious consequences. AI can potentially be used to support business activities such as hiring employees, or assessing student university admissions, by making decisions based on data patterns. However, these decisions may lack transparency, making it difficult for individuals to understand the outcome or question the results of the analyses, or to recognize any biases that may have influenced the decision. This leads to unfair or discriminatory outcomes, particularly if AI is trained on biased data. If you are going to use AI to make a decision, you need to be prepared to defend the decision and the decision-making process. Threats to Information Security Ensure the use of generative AI complies with other SFU Policies such as Information Systems Policy GP24: Acceptable Use and Security of Digital Information and Electronic Systems , including the Information Security Standards . To keep SFU\u2019s electronic information secure, anyone doing university work on non-SFU systems must follow the Privacy and Information Security Standards", ":\n\nAI complies with other SFU Policies such as Information Systems Policy GP24: Acceptable Use and Security of Digital Information and Electronic Systems , including the Information Security Standards . To keep SFU\u2019s electronic information secure, anyone doing university work on non-SFU systems must follow the Privacy and Information Security Standards and Procedures. Generative AI could be used in harmful ways, and there is a real risk of more cyber and fraud attacks \u2014 like deepfakes used by attackers to trick or target people. Copyright infringement GenAI applications may use content provided to them as training data to further refine their performance. You should be aware that uploading or pasting parts, or all, of a document into this type of GenAI application may violate copyright. Also remember that even if you or SFU owns the copyright to a document, always check that it does not contain Personal or Confidential information as outlined above. Additionally, many third party copyrighted works are made available to SFU users under license. In many cases these licenses prohibit the use of the content with GenAI applications, so always check the license terms for this content before using them with GenAI applications. Subject-specific contacts Privacy Queries can be sent to privacy@sfu.ca . Information Security Queries can be sent to information-security@sfu.ca . Risk Queries can be sent to risk_srs@sfu.ca . Copyright Queries can be sent to copy@sfu.ca . Definitions Personal Information : recorded data about an identifiable individual other than business contact information. Examples include name, image, marital or family status, unique identifying numbers, demographic information (gender, race, ethnicity, religion), educational history, employment history and job performance, personal contact information, financial history, medical history, disability status, an individual's recorded personal views or opinions, and anyone else's recorded views and opinions about an individual. Confidential information : includes trade", ":\n\nor family status, unique identifying numbers, demographic information (gender, race, ethnicity, religion), educational history, employment history and job performance, personal contact information, financial history, medical history, disability status, an individual's recorded personal views or opinions, and anyone else's recorded views and opinions about an individual. Confidential information : includes trade secrets and proprietary data. Related Articles (2) Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn more about Microsoft 365 Copilot (a personalized productivity AI assistant) at SFU. Privacy and Security Guidance for using Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn about privacy and security guidance for using Copilot at SFU.", "Overview The IT Services Digital Transformation Office (DTO) provides support services to all projects that follow the Information Systems Stewardship Model. \u200bThe Information Systems Stewardship Model ensures that the IT Services projects and initiatives are in alignment with the University's strategic goals. The goal of the IT Services DTO is to build an effective, flexible \u200bproject management framework that can be applied to any project with effective repeatable processes. \u200b Below are the FAQs on Portfolio and Project Management. Details I have a Project that will need IT Funding and/or Resources, where do I start? After completing an initial assessment and determined your project will take: 20 days (144 hours) or more of effort; or $10,000 or more of project funding. The first step is to add your project to the ITS Projects Roadmap. How do I add my project to the ITS Projects Roadmap? All projects in the Roadmap will be presented to the Stewardship Committees for review on timing and strategic alignment while it is being documented into a Project Charter. In order to add your project to the roadmap, you must complete the following: \u200b\u200b\u200b Submit a Project Proposal using the Project Proposal Template to its-pmo@sfu.ca \u200b \u200b Add your project to the ITS Projects Roadmap spreadsheet in the \"Data\" tab and fill in all applicable columns\u200b Who updates the entry on the ITS Project Roadmap once it's been added? Once you've filled out the ITS Projects Roadmap, you will be responsible for your entry until it's time to submit a Project Charter. Once the Project Charter has been submitted to the DTO for your project, the DTO will be responsible for your entry on the ITS Projects Roadmap spreadsheet. Then, once the project has been assigned a Project Manager, the Project Manager will be responsible for", "time to submit a Project Charter. Once the Project Charter has been submitted to the DTO for your project, the DTO will be responsible for your entry on the ITS Projects Roadmap spreadsheet. Then, once the project has been assigned a Project Manager, the Project Manager will be responsible for the entry on the ITS Projects Roadmap. How do I submit a Projec\u200b\u200bt Charter? All completed Project Charter, and Project Plan documents are to be sent to the Analyst, DTO to be reviewed and scheduled for presentation at the Project Review Committee meeting. If you have any questions about filling out any of the documents or need assistance, please email its-pmo@sfu.ca \u200b The information contained within the Project Charter assists the Project Review Committee\u200b with making an informed decision to approve the project request and determine if the project should be presented to\u200b\u200b\u200b one of the four stewardship committees for further approval: \u200bASSC - Administrative Systems Steering Co\u200bmm\u200bt\u200be;\u200b\u200b \u200bESSC - Educational Systems Steering Committee; RSSC - Research Systems Steering Committee; \u200bOne IS - One \u200bInformation Systems Steering Committee\u200b.", "Project Charter Template:\n\nhttps://sharepoint.sfu.ca/sites/its/pmo/templates What about a Project Plan? All projects require planning. Smaller projects, with less resource requirements, limited impacts and shorter timeline can have their plan approved within the Project Charter template. A \u200bProject Plan document is required when: Overall one-time project funding is $75,000 or more. \u200b\u200bThe purpose of the Project Plan document is used to plan out the activities required to successfully execute the project in greater details. It's audience is the project manager and project team, however the stewardship committees will want to review project plans before granting projects approval to execute.", "Project Plan Template:\n\nhttps://sharepoint.sfu.ca/sites/its/pmo/templates Overview The IT Services Digital Transformation Office (DTO) provides support services to all projects that follow the Information Systems Stewardship Model. \u200bThe Information Systems Stewardship Model ensures that the IT Services projects and initiatives are in alignment with the University's strategic goals. The goal of the IT Services DTO is to build an effective, flexible \u200bproject management framework that can be applied to any project with effective repeatable processes. \u200b Below are the FAQs on Portfolio and Project Management.", "This article will review:\n\nHow to Review Submitted Articles Approving or Rejecting Articles Details To review a knowledge article, it first needs to be submitted to the IT Services knowledge base. For an overview on drafting and submitting knowledge articles a creator refer to this documentation .", "Note:\n\nTo review knowledge articles you will need the Service Owner role in TeamDynamix. How to Review Submitted Articles As a service owner, your account in TeamDynamix will have the ability to review and approve any submitted knowledge articles within the IT Services knowledge. This provides you with an opportunity to check the content of an article and send feedback to the creator before it is published. To start, sign in to the IT Services knowledge base .", "Then either:\n\nNavigate to the Articles Pending Review tab Or, have the author of an article send you a direct link (via email, instant message...etc.) to their submitted draft Approving Articles The next step is to either approve or reject the article. If you reject the article, ensure you notify the author using the Notify check-box and leave a comment. This will send an email to the author and provide them with an opportunity to make edits for re-submission. If you approve the article, ensure you notify the author using the Notify check-box to let them know that the article is ready to be published. They will then send a request to the knowledge manager for the IT Services knowledge base to have it published. After the article is approved, it's status will also be updated for confirmation.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Service Managers Overview This is a recorded training session for Service Owners (SO) and Service Offering Managers (SOM) on May 11, 2022. Note: Service Offering Manager (SOM) is an ITSM Term for Product Owner", "Service Owners (SO) and Service Offering Manager (SOM) Training Session:\n\nTraining video for: Service Owner & Service Offering Manager The goals of this training is to get Service Owner and Service Offering Manager familiar with: What a service is. What service ownership is. What a service offering is. What a service offering manager is. How these work in TeamDynamix. If you've any questions, please visit the Enterprise Service Management (ESM) service page and raise tickets to the support team. ESM webpage is Service - Enterprise Service Management (teamdynamix.com) .", "Additional links for your reference:\n\nServiceHub | TeamDynamix Sandbox, Service Catalog ServiceHub | TeamDynamix Production, Service Catalog Enterprise Service Management (ESM) | TeamDynamix Service Page MS Teams - One I.S - TeamDynamix Channel Related Articles (1) How to review, approve or reject knowledge articles as an ITS Service Owner This article outlines how IT Service Owners can approve or reject articles submitted to the IT Services knowledge base.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management ESM Vision and Operations Employee Collection Notice for SFU Staff using TeamDynamix (ServiceHub) Employees using TeamDynamix (TDX) to respond to tickets will have their personal information collected by SFU through the TDX platform, under the authority of the University Act (RSBC 1996, c.468) and the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (RSBC 1996, c.165). The collected personal information includes an access and use log and your communications with end-users. The information will be used to manage support requests from clients, administer workflows, to evaluate and manage employee and departmental performance, and to monitor and improve services. If you have any questions about the collection, use and disclosure of this information please contact tdx@sfu.ca. For more information about SFU policies & guidelines for personal information, visit the Archive and Records Management website . Guidelines for Data within TeamDynamix (ServiceHub) IT Services outlines guidance for data management within IT systems. For more information about IT specific data guidelines, visit the Information Systems website . IT Services staff (and associated departments) managing ticket information within TeamDynamix are expected to: Only handle or store the minimum amount of data required to complete a task (the principle of \u201cdata minimization\u201d ). Do not handle or store any data that is not required, in particular very sensitive data. Internal Data or Regulated Data may only be shared with other SFU Employees when their role at SFU requires them to have access to perform their duties (the principle of \u201cleast privilege\u201d ). Keep data on just one Information System (TeamDynamix) and do not copy, extract, or download data to other Information Systems. In the case of a violation of this control, then either one of the following must be done: Submit a plan to", "their duties (the principle of \u201cleast privilege\u201d ). Keep data on just one Information System (TeamDynamix) and do not copy, extract, or download data to other Information Systems. In the case of a violation of this control, then either one of the following must be done: Submit a plan to eliminate the redundancy to the Data Governance Council, or Submit a request for approval in writing to the Data Governance Council. Enterprise and Local Information Systems staff are available to consult with departments and users to advise them of the risks and help determine which Information Systems will be best able to meet their requirements and support their business processes.", "Overview Knowledge articles related to video conferencing - Zoom, which provides faculty, staff, and students with the ability to hold or attend live meetings, lectures, and presentations with colleagues from remote locations. Details", "FEATURES\n\nVideo and/or audio meetings by computer or phone Screen sharing with annotation Virtual whiteboard and other collaboration tools Integration with popular calendar applications such as Outlook", "ZOOM ACCOUNT DIFFERENCES AT SFU\n\nAt SFU your Zoom account will have different features unlocked depending on your role. These features are meant to promote the safety and security of all Zoom meetings being held at the University. Please see our Zoom Privacy & Security page for more information.", "X\n\nAllow removed participants to rejoin \u2713", "X\n\nFile transfer, Livestreaming", "FEATURE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN ZOOM MEETING AND ZOOM WEBINAR\n\nWhat's Zoom Meeting and Zoom Webinar? Zoom Meeting Zoom Webinar Video sharing All participants Host and panelists View only participants x \u221a", "Q&A\n\nx \u221a Waiting room \u221a x Breakout room \u221a x Participant list Visible to all participants Visible to host and panelists Overview Knowledge articles related to video conferencing - Zoom, which provides faculty, staff, and students with the ability to hold or attend live meetings, lectures, and presentations with colleagues from remote locations. Overview Knowledge articles related to video conferencing - Zoom, which provides faculty, staff, and students with the ability to hold or attend live meetings, lectures, and presentations with colleagues from remote locations. Overview Knowledge articles related to video conferencing - Zoom, which provides faculty, staff, and students with the ability to hold or attend live meetings, lectures, and presentations with colleagues from remote locations.", "Overview This article explains the differences between Zoom meeting and Zoom webinar. Details Major differences Meeting: Every participant can chat via audio and video. Webinar: Attendees, except the host and panellists, are view-only, but can be un-muted if the host gives permission.", "ZOOM MEETING\n\nAvailable to All students, faculty, and staff for collaborative meetings \u2264 300 participants Recommended for When all participants (\u2264 300) are encouraged to chat via audio and video, and share their screens, for example: Brainstorming meetings Tutorials, where group discussions is encouraged Student project team meetings", "ZOOM WEBINAR\n\nLimited to Faculty, and staff upon request for large classes or events with up to 1000 participants Recommended for Events or classes with more than 300 participants, where the host and panellists prefer more control over the audience. It allows view-only attendees to minimize interruptions. Attendees can interact via Q&A, chat and polling. Classes or events < 1000 participants Large virtual activities with view-only attendees Events involving panellists Exceeding the participant capacity? Large Zoom Meeting (up to 500 participants), or large Zoom Webinar (up to 1000 participants) can be enabled upon request .", "FEATURE COMPARISON\n\nTable comparing the features of Zoom Meetings against Zoom Webinars. Zoom Meeting Zoom Webinar Available to Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty & Staff (Request needed) Audience Capacity < 300 < 1000 Screen-sharing \u2713 \u2713 Chat Message \u2713 \u2713 Online Teaching \u2713 \u2713 Video Recording \u2713 \u2713 Host & Co-Host option \u2713 \u2713 Polling \u2713 \u2713 Downloading videos \u2713 \u2713", "PRIVACY AND SECURITY WITH ZOOM\n\nSFU is prioritizing the security and privacy of all faculty, staff and students while configuring Zoom's system-wide settings, which will be more restrictive to start. As conversations progress and SFU continues adjusting to adopt recommended practices to balance risk mitigation with meeting community needs, changes may occur to the availability of features and functions. Updates will be published on this page as new details are confirmed.", "GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS\n\nWith the recent transition to work-from-home environments for many SFU faculty, staff, and students, please be mindful of the type of content being shared, which is now more likely to include personal environments. Participants have the option of either turning off their camera or using a virtual background to hide their personal environment. Anyone recording sessions in SFU Zoom is required to meet our privacy obligations under the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA). We advise against recording sessions using third-party applications or non-SFU Zoom accounts without attendees\u2019 knowledge and/or consent. All recorded content may be subject to a formal access to information request made under FIPPA. For added security, you can configure your meetings to allow only users with Zoom accounts to join your meetings. Check out the instructions .", "PROVIDING CONSENT TO TERMS OF USE\n\nYour participation in a Zoom meeting will result in the disclosure of personal information to Zoom Video Communications. You may consent to this disclosure in one of two ways: If you are an SFU student, staff or faculty member, by signing into your SFU Zoom account , you have provided consent as part of the sign-in process. If you are a meeting/webinar participant without an SFU Zoom account, you can consent by filling out this form: https://www.surveymonkey.ca/r/zoomprivacy", "Notable requirements for compliance with FIPPA include:\n\nSecuring stored recordings. Avoid storing records on non-SFU systems (e.g., Google Drive or Dropbox). Consider filing recordings with other related departmental records; do not leave recordings on personal devices. On January 12th, 2021, SFU Zoom offers optional cloud recording for hosts of all Zoom meetings. All Cloud recordings are stored in SFU Zoom\u2019s new online Canadian data centre. Passcode protection is enforced for all shared cloud recordings. Cloud recordings stored in the Zoom cloud will be deleted 365 days after the meeting date or can be deleted by the host. Local and cloud recording allows the host to record their Zoom meeting's video, audio, transcribed text, and chat transcripts. A properly formatted collection notice that clearly defines the business purpose for the collection of personal information, the legal authority for the collection, and the contact information of an SFU officer or employee who can answer questions regarding collection. Zoom does not have any built-in capability of delivering such a collection notice. Controlled access. Access to recordings can only be granted to university employees when it is necessary for the performance of their work duties. Sharing of the recordings in the absence of a legitimate business need is not authorized. Consistent use. Participants\u2019 personal information can only be used for the purpose for which it was obtained and compiled or for a use consistent with that purpose. Secondary uses of the recordings are not authorized. Minimum retention. Recordings containing personal information must be retained for a minimum of one year if they are used to make decisions that directly affect participants. Examples include academic advising sessions, job interviews and exam invigilations. Authorized disposal. The University will dispose of recordings only with an approved Records Retention Schedule and Disposal Authority. Departments may or may not have applicable RRSDAs already in place. Visit", "Notable requirements for compliance with FIPPA include:\n\nthey are used to make decisions that directly affect participants. Examples include academic advising sessions, job interviews and exam invigilations. Authorized disposal. The University will dispose of recordings only with an approved Records Retention Schedule and Disposal Authority. Departments may or may not have applicable RRSDAs already in place. Visit the Directory of University Records for more information at https://www.sfu.ca/archives2/dur/dur.html . A business rationale for the need to record content. Staff meetings, academic advising sessions, job interviews, etc. have not been typically recorded at the University in the past. We strongly advise against recording Zoom sessions for the purposes of administrate convenience or as a means of compiling meeting minutes and notes.", "COLLECTION\n\nDepending on how you run your lectures and the steps students take to anonymize their identities, it is possible that a student's personal information (e.g., name, image, voice, personal views and opinions, course work) may be captured in a recording. Use a collection notice so that your students are aware of the purpose for the collection of their personal information, the legal authority for the collection, and to whom they can direct questions about the collection. The following is a recommended template: ...More \u2192", "1. CAN I RECORD A LECTURE THAT I AM DELIVERING?\n\nSee Privacy and Copyright Guidelines for Instructors for Recording Zoom Lectures for measures to take when recording lectures.", "2. CAN I RECORD A STAFF MEETING?\n\nStaff should not record meetings, especially if individual third parties will be discussed (e.g. job candidates, students, members of the public, etc.). If you must record a meeting then you should refrain from disclosing personal details about yourself or third parties. If you need to discuss specific third parties, anonymize the individuals by using pseudonyms (e.g. Applicant 1, Applicant 2, Applicant 3).", "3. CAN I RECORD A MEETING WITH A STUDENT OR OTHER PRIVATE INDIVIDUAL?\n\nWhen meeting virtually with students or other private individuals using Zoom, you need to inform the individual about how they can anonymize their identity. In addition, we strongly recommend that counsellors, doctors, advisors, and others who are discussing sensitive personal information (e.g., medical history, academic history, disability accommodations, financial history) do not use Zoom's recording feature. Meeting hosts are responsible for notifying participants if they are recording a meeting. Meeting participants will generally hear a notice or see an on-screen notification when recording is in progress", "4. HOW DO I ANONYMIZE MY IDENTITY WHEN ATTENDING A ZOOM SESSION?\n\nIf you have been invited to a Zoom meeting as an attendee, you can join the Zoom meeting via the web application without signing into a Zoom account. The Zoom web application allows you to use a pseudonym (e.g. first name only or a nickname). If you prefer to use your SFU Zoom account to participate in sessions, you can change your display name before joining the session. Please note that you will have to make this change every time you sign into SFU Zoom , as your display name will revert to your first and last name with every login. You can anonymize yourself further by not using the audio and video conferencing features, and by not revealing any personal information about yourself or third parties during online discussions.", "5. CAN I CHANGE MY DISPLAY NAME?\n\nYou can change your display name before joining the session or change a preferred name in your profile.", "Overview This article is related to the technical requirements for Zoom. Details", "Recommended bandwidth over WIFI:\n\n2.6 Mbps/1.8 Mbps (up/down) For gallery view receiving: 4.0 Mbps (49 viewers)", "DESKTOP REQUIREMENTS\n\nZoom can be used on a variety of desktop operating systems and browsers. These include: Delivery method: Zoom desktop application or via browser (with limited functionality)", "Compatible with the following operating systems:\n\nWindows 7,8, 10, Ubuntu 12.04 or higher, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.4 or higher, MacOS X with MacOS 10.7 or later", "Compatible with the following browsers:\n\nWindows: IE 11+, Edge 12+, Firefox 27+, Chrome 30+ Mac: Safari 7+, FIrefox 27+, Chrome 30+ Linux: Firefox 27+, Chrome 30+ Processor and RAM recommended: Dual-core 2 Ghz or higher / 4 GB RAM", "MOBILE REQUIREMENTS\n\nZoom is available to use on iOS and Android devices. All SFU users need to sign in with SFU Single Sign-On (SSO). iOS 8.0 or later, iPadOS 13 or later, and Android 5.0X or later. Any 1Ghz single core processor or better", "MICROSOFT OUTLOOK PLUGIN AND ADD-IN\n\nThe Outlook plugin is only supported on macOS 10.14. and above. Here is the link to download. Microsoft has announced this is no longer available after 2021. The Outlook Add-in is prohibited due to security reasons.", "Overview mySchedule is embedded in goSFU to help you plan and enroll in your optimal schedule. It allows you to graphically view your schedule options, find desired course combinations, and create the course schedule that works best for you. Details For more information, please visit mySchedule - Enrollment. Overview mySchedule is embedded in goSFU to help you plan and enroll in your optimal schedule. It allows you to graphically view your schedule options, find desired course combinations, and create the course schedule that works best for you. Overview mySchedule is embedded in goSFU to help you plan and enroll in your optimal schedule. It allows you to graphically view your schedule options, find desired course combinations, and create the course schedule that works best for you. Overview mySchedule is embedded in goSFU to help you plan and enroll in your optimal schedule. It allows you to graphically view your schedule options, find desired course combinations, and create the course schedule that works best for you.", "Step 1:\n\nOpen the computer lab dashboard. Computer Lab Dashboard", "Step 2:\n\nClick on a campus Click on the IP Address of the computer you want to use", "Important:\n\nRemember the computer name for a later step, i.e., aq-3148-02", "Step 3:\n\nLogin via CAS and MFA to access Guacmole at gateway.its.sfu.ca. Multi-factor Authentication enrollment is required for this service. Set up MFA", "Step 4:\n\nFind the computer you selected in step 2, by Option 1 (preffered): using the Search filter Option 2: browsing by Faculty/Campus > LabName RDP vs SSH Connection protocols RDP vs SSH are identified by the icon", "Sign in using:\n\nyour SFU computingID and password, and domin: ADSFU Sign out when your are finished to make the computer available for others. Remote sessions will automatically time out after 3 hours of continuous use to allow all students the opportunity to use our computer labs.", "The Guacamole menu is a sidebar which is hidden until explicitly shown. On a desktop or other device which has a hardware keyboard, you can show this menu by pressing Ctrl + Alt + Shift .", "COPYING/PASTING TEXT\n\nAt the top of the Guacamole menu is a text area labeled \"clipboard\" along with some basic instructions.", "TRANSFERRING FILES FOR SSH CONNECTIONS:\n\nYou can transfer files back and forth between your local computer and the remote desktop for SSH connections. Files can be transferred to the remote computer by dragging and dropping the files into your browser window, or through using the file browser located in the Guacamole menu. You can show this menu by pressing Ctrl + Alt + Shift . Use the option for \"Upload File.\" RDP connections to windows or linux system will need to use other means such as Vault or Office 365 cloud drives.", "Step 1:\n\nOpen the computer lab dashboard. Computer Lab Dashboard", "Step 1:\n\nA SFU VPN connection is required to use the .RDP file downloaded in step 4. If you haven't set it up, follow the instructions to set up SFU VPN on your device.", "Step 2 (Mac only):\n\nFor Windows, skip to Step 3. Install Microsoft Remote Desktop from the App Store", "Step 3:\n\nOpen the computer lab dashboard Click on a campus Computer Lab Dashboard", "Step 4:\n\nClick on the IP Address of the computer you want to use Allow the downloads from KeyServer Open the downloaded .rdp file to set up the remote connection. Note: IP number could change from session to session, please always connect from the list of computers on KeyServer.", "using:\n\nYour SFU computingID and password Be sure to use format ADSFU\\userid , or userid@sfu.ca Sign out when your are finished to make the computer available for others. Remote sessions will automatically time out after 3 hours of continuous use to allow all students the opportunity to use our computer labs.", "Overview This article contains frequently asked questions about PaperCut. Details", "WHY CAN'T I USE THE PRINTER IN THE DINING HALL ON BURNABY CAMPUS?\n\nPrinting services are not currently available in Dining Hall.", "WHY CAN'T I PRINT EVEN WHEN I HAVE PRINTING FUNDS ON MY ACCOUNT?\n\nPrinting balances shown on the Print Release Station reflect a combined total consisting of: Default (department funding) Cash", "IRMACS FM\n\nDining Hall FM Print release stations/kiosks only recognize 'Cash' accounts and will not print jobs if there are insufficient funds in the \u2018Cash\u2019 account. Dining Hall FM funds can only be used on the Dining Hall printing.", "BURNABY\n\nBennett Library 3rd Floor, includes cash loader Show in Room Finder Room AQ3148, includes cash loader Show in Room Finder Room WMC2502 Show in Room Finder", "Surrey Library, SC3620 SC2300, the Fire Fighter Lab (cash loader located outside of SC2300)", "Overview This article contains step-by-step instructions for how students and library guest patrons can print. Details", "Step 1:\n\nAdd printing credit to your account (in-person or online) In-person", "by using the cash machines at the following locations:\n\nLibrary 3 rd floor The machine accepts $1, $2 coins and $5, $10 and $20 bills but does not give change. The library front desk can break larger bills. SFU students : log in using your computing ID username that you use for goSFU, Canvas, etc. (not your student number or email address).", "Guest patrons:\n\ncase-sensitive username in the form of IC xxxxxxxxxx, including the space, and the corresponding case-sensitive password. Online by visiting www.sfu.ca/papercut while connected to SFUNET-SECURE wireless (SFU students only).", "Step 2:\n\nLog onto a computer using the same credentials from Step 1 Guest patrons only have access to library computers.", "Step 3:\n\nOpen your document and print to black and white or colour Lab Mono: Prints black and white ($0.11 per side) Lab Color: Prints colour ($0.25 per side)", "Step 4:\n\nLog onto the computer beside the printer and release your document Overview.", "INSTALLING PAPERCUT CLIENT ON YOUR DEVICES\n\nSetup wireless printing for Mac, Windows 7, Windows 8, and Windows 10. Note: Printers are already installed on the IT Services lab and Library computers. These instructions are for laptops, notebooks, and notepads only. Lab Printing macOS Lab Printing Windows (64-bit) Papercut Client macOS Papercut Client Windows (64-bit) Papercut Client Linux", "Note:\n\nThe Mac will ask you to enter your username and password for the printer and to \"Remember this password in my keychain\". Use your SFU credentials and not the computer account. The message \"Holding for Authentication\" will be displayed if the local computer account is stored/used. Edit the OSX Keychain and modify the entry associated with the printer.", "Overview This article describes how to transfer printing credit to another student. Details", "TRANSFERRING FUNDS FROM YOUR PAPERCUT ACCOUNT\n\nOnly cash funds can be transferred. To transfer funds, Log on to your PaperCut account Click on Transfers from the left navigation menu Enter the amount to transfer Enter the person's computing ID to transfer funds to Click on . Funds will automatically be transferred from your account to the other person Funds will remain in the printing account for one year after graduation after which the print account will be deleted. Funds in default and Dining Hall account will not be refunded or transferable. Note: The PaperCut account portal is only available while connected to SFUNET-SECURE.", "Overview This article contains information about the PaperCut refund policy and how to request a refund. Details Pages that aren\u2019t successfully printed will be refunded automatically as PaperCut can detect if a print job is successfully delivered.", "Refunds will only be provided on the following basis:\n\nFading or streaked printer tone; document has to be produced at time of claim. Lost print jobs due to printer hardware failure where job does not resume printing.", "Refunds will not be provided for:\n\nUnspent balance in your PaperCut account (you can, however, transfer your account balance to another SFU or FIC student). Wrong print job or print job settings.", "HOW TO REQUEST A REFUND\n\nLog on to your PaperCut account Click on Recent Print Jobs Click on r equest refund and provide a detailed explanation. If your document was printed but the quality is poor, bring the document to the nearest IT Service Center to help you re-print or to ask for a refund.", "Note:\n\nThe PaperCut account portal is only available while connected to campus systems, or to the", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nwireless network. Overview This article contains information about the PaperCut refund policy and how to request a refund.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents Overview Just getting started with ServiceHub at SFU or looking for a refresher? Explore online resources that walk though how to use the ticketing application. Access and Sign In In order to sign into ServiceHub Ticketing App, there are pre-requisites. If you don't have permissions to sign into the app, see How to gain access to ServiceHub Ticketing App for details. For a direct sign-in link, go to https:// servicehub.sfu.ca/tickets Access ServiceHub Ticketing App SFU ServiceHub Training For SFU-focused training for IT Technicians and ticketing agents, see our recorded Zoom training sessions for held on June 2022 IT Technicians Training Videos TeamDynamix Training For additional training, see various articles and videos provided by TeamDynamix below:", "Access and Overview:\n\nAccessing Interfaces (Video) Using TDNext (Video)", "Working with Tickets:\n\nGetting Started with Tickets Creating Tickets in TDNext (Video) Ticket Anatomy (Video) Common Ticket Activities (Video) Searching and Filtering (Video) Differences between Incident, Major Incident, Problem, Change, Release, and Service Request", "Organizing Your Work:\n\nGetting Started with Desktops Getting Started with Reporting Visualizing Information with Desktops (Video) Creating and Editing Desktops (Video) Using the My Work Application (Video)", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Central Authentication Service (CAS)", "OVERVIEW\n\nBefore SFU adopted CAS as its authentication method for the web, we already had an Apache authentication/authorization module that allowed limited access control based on maillist membership. With the arrival of CAS, we modified a version of mod_cas (later mod_auth_cas) that would allow Apache to use the SFU version of CAS version 2 (later CAS version 3) to grant access based on SFU maillists.", "DETAILS\n\nWith the arrival of CAS 5, the changes made to CAS by SFU are no longer needed, and the latest unchanged version of mod_auth_cas can be used. This version supports Apache 2.4 (which the older SFU modified version of mod_auth_cas does not). Because the 2.2 version of Apache is no longer being maintained by The Apache Software Foundation, you may want to upgrade your Apache, but that will also require that you upgrade to the latest version of mod_auth_cas.", "CAN WE CONTINUE TO USE THE OLDER VERSION OF MOD_AUTH_CAS?\n\nThe short answer is yes. However, that version of mod_auth_cas does not support Apache 2.4, so you are stuck with the older non-maintained version of Apache. There are a few other things to keep in mind if you want to continue using the old SFU version of mod_auth_cas. For example, in order to do the authorization, the SFU modified mod_auth_cas uses an SFU added feature of CAS, and adds an \"allow=\" string to the login and serviceValidate CAS entry points. We have added support for this to CAS 5 to continue to support the old mod_auth_cas, but this may not be supported in future upgrades to CAS. Another thing to keep in mind is that mod_auth_cas needs attributes from CAS to do the authorization work. The older versions of CAS didn't return attributes, so SFU modified CAS so that you could get the needed attributes from serviceValidate. In CAS 5, attributes are returned using p3/serviceValidate, but not with serviceValidate. We have added a setting in CAS 5 to allow some attributes to be returned by serviceValidate, and this setting will be set for those services that were using the old SFU mod_auth_cas before the upgrade to CAS 5. If you want to use the old SFU mod_auth_cas with a new service, you either need to let us know to set that setting for your service, or you need to specify \"CASValidateURL https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/p3/serviceValidate\" to get the attributes that are needed by mod_auth_cas.", "WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE TO UPGRADE TO THE NEW MOD_AUTH_CAS?\n\nThere are a number of good reasons to upgrade to the new mod_auth_cas, including allowing you to upgrade to the new, fully supported, Apache 2.4. The first thing to do before upgrading is to read Using mod_auth_cas at SFU to get an idea how the new module works and where to get it. Once you have the new mod_auth_cas downloaded, built and installed, you need to make sure that you have set CASValidateURL to p3/serviceValidate like this: CASValidateURL https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/p3/serviceValidate The next step is to check if you have specified Authtype Basic when using mod_auth_cas. This was allowed in the old SFU mod_auth_cas so that you could use Apache basic authentication in conjunction with CAS when controlling access to a non-web application such as WebDAV. This is not supported in the new mod_auth_cas, but we have made available a simple authentication module mod_authn_cas which will handle this use case. See this page for information on mod_authn_cas . Using \"Basic\" was also allowed in certain circumstances as equivalent to \"CAS\". If that was how it was being used, simply use \"Authtype CAS\" instead. Next, check to see if you use AuthUserFile /path/to/.htpasswd to point to a file containing userid/password entries. The old mod_auth_cas would let you use these .htpasswd files to specify IDs or maillists to control access. The new mod_auth_cas doesn't support these .htpasswd files, so see the following table for replacing items in the .htpasswd file with Require lines. Line in .htpasswd file What it did Equivalent Require line in new mod_auth_cas +userid allow access to SFU userid Require user userid +!mail-list allow access to members of mail-list Require cas-attribute member:resource:dept:DEPT_NAME:some-group userid password allow access to made up ID this is not supported in new mod_auth_cas The final step is to replace the Require directives from the old mod_auth_cas with", "WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE TO UPGRADE TO THE NEW MOD_AUTH_CAS?\n\nnew mod_auth_cas +userid allow access to SFU userid Require user userid +!mail-list allow access to members of mail-list Require cas-attribute member:resource:dept:DEPT_NAME:some-group userid password allow access to made up ID this is not supported in new mod_auth_cas The final step is to replace the Require directives from the old mod_auth_cas with equivalent Require directives for the new mod_auth_cas. The following table should help. Old mod_auth_cas New mod_auth_cas Require valid-user or Require valid-sfu-user Require valid-user Require user userid or Require sfu-user userid Require user userid Require user !mail-list Require cas-attribute member:resource:dept:DEPT_NAME:some-group Require valid-sfu-staff Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:staff Require valid-sfu-faculty Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:faculty Require valid-sfu-student Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:undergrad Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:grad Required valid-alumni-user Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:alumnus", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Central Authentication Service (CAS)", "WHAT IS CAS\n\nThe Central Authentication Service (CAS) is a web application used by other web applications to authenticate visitors. In addition to providing authentication, CAS implements a single sign-on feature to make it easier for users to move from one authenticated application to another. SFU CAS is a slightly modified version of Jasig CAS . SFU has added a number of extensions to CAS (mostly authorization features such as integration with our mail list system), but has maintained compatibility with Jasig CAS, so applications that support Jasig CAS should work at SFU without modification.", "WHEN TO USE CAS\n\nAny application in use at SFU, whether running on the cgi.sfu.ca server, or running on a departmental or dedicated server, can use CAS for authentication. Third-party applications customized for SFU should be modified to use CAS whenever possible. Although CAS can provide some basic authorization , it is an authentication service. It determines that users are who they say they are. CAS can provide information to help an application make authorization decisions, but it is important to understand that some people who possess an SFU computing account may only be loosely affiliated with SFU. All applications that use SFU CAS must be registered as a service. Fill out the CAS Service Application form to get started .", "THE EASIEST WAY TO USE CAS\n\nIn many cases, using CAS requires no new programming to protect either static web content or dynamic web applications. On systems that run the Apache HTTP Server, a runtime module ( mod_auth_cas ) is available to provide CAS authentication to the entire server (or a configurable subset of the server\u2019s content). While CAS simply authenticates users, this module provides both authentication services and access-control services. It lets you grant access to specific users as well as users based on their membership in a maillist. It even lets users on your servers authenticate users and restrict access via local .htaccess files.", "A PROGRAMMER\u2019S VIEW OF CAS\n\nIf you decide that the Apache module is insufficient for your needs, you will need to write a small amount of custom code to handle authentication programmatically. Some client libraries are available to ease the use of CAS even further. Before you begin to integrate your application with CAS, however, you should understand a few details about the way CAS operates. First and more importantly, CAS is unlike many familiar authentication systems because it is not simply a password-validation tool. In a traditional environment, your web application will ask users for an ID and a password, and it will then call logic to determine whether this ID/password pair is valid. With CAS, however, your application never gains access to the user's password; to improve system-wide security, users supply their passwords only to the CAS server directly. Therefore, using CAS in your application may be more circuitous than you initially imagine, though be assured that the process is still straightforward and easy to master. When you first encounter a new user (e.g., one that has not yet established a session with your application), you'd normally display a username/password form in HTML. With CAS, you don't do this; instead, you simply redirect the user's browser to CAS's login URL, which is https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/login CAS then authenticates the user. If authentication fails \u2013 e.g., if the user cannot supply a correct password \u2013 then you\u2019ll never hear from the user again. Instead, the user will remain at CAS\u2019s site and will have the option to choose various \u201chelp\u201d links that point to IT Services help sites to help them deal with computing account problems. Only if a user successfully authenticates does that user\u2019s browser return to your application. Specifically, the user returns because CAS redirects the browser back to your application. CAS knows how", "A PROGRAMMER\u2019S VIEW OF CAS\n\nto choose various \u201chelp\u201d links that point to IT Services help sites to help them deal with computing account problems. Only if a user successfully authenticates does that user\u2019s browser return to your application. Specifically, the user returns because CAS redirects the browser back to your application. CAS knows how to find your application because when you initially redirected the user to CAS, you supplied a service parameter, in the form https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/login?service=http://my/url (Note that any metacharacters in your service URL, such as question marks, ampersands, and equals signs, must be escaped appropriately using the standard URL encoding algorithm: %26 for &, %3D for =, and %3F for ?. This will be necessary if your service URL contains parameters of its own. Note also that while it is necessary that you use HTTPS to safeguard your own application's authentication in secure environments, CAS's overall security is not weakened if your application merely uses HTTP; instead, CAS still authenticates the user securely.) When CAS redirects the authenticated user back to your application, it will append a parameter named ticket to your URL. For instance, the URL you supplied CAS may be called as follows: http://my/url?ticket=ST-92834-m34Aa83f7a3f We call this ticket opaque because, unlike an X.509 certificate or a Kerberos TGT, it is not possible for your application to decipher its meaning in isolation or from first principles. It has no internal structure useful to your application. The only thing you can do with this ticket is to send it back to CAS, which involves opening an HTTPS connection to https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/serviceValidate and sending two query parameters: service, which must match the service URL you initially supplied to CAS when redirecting the user there, and ticket, which is the ticket you just received. CAS then responds either with an explicit refutation of the ticket (think", "A PROGRAMMER\u2019S VIEW OF CAS\n\ninvolves opening an HTTPS connection to https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/serviceValidate and sending two query parameters: service, which must match the service URL you initially supplied to CAS when redirecting the user there, and ticket, which is the ticket you just received. CAS then responds either with an explicit refutation of the ticket (think \u201cit\u2019s not meaningful to me and does not represent a valid user\u201d) or an acknowledgment that the ticket proves authentication. In the latter case, CAS also supplies information about the user in an XML document, most notably the account that the user logged in with. Note that this final connection to CAS occurs directly between your application and CAS; your application opens a socket connection and retrieves information from the CAS server. You do not redirect the browser; you speak directly to CAS, effectively closing the loop and completing the authentication process. The CAS client libraries focus on making the HTTPS communication simple in a variety of languages; you don\u2019t need to know details about how to write an SSL or HTTPS client, nor do you need to know any details about how CAS\u2019s response is formatted textually.", "WHAT TO DO ONCE YOU AUTHENTICATE A USER WITH CAS\n\nCAS is not a session-management mechanism; it provides no facility for helping you keep track of users once they\u2019re authenticated. Typically, applications will want to track users just as they would if they\u2019d validated a user\u2019s password themselves. That is, you\u2019ll probably want to establish your own session \u2013 using application-specific, in-memory cookies or a similar mechanism \u2013 right after you validate a user\u2019s authenticity with CAS. CAS is a single sign-on facility; once a user authenticates to CAS, the user need not continue to supply a password for other applications that redirect the user to CAS. However, CAS is not a \u201csingle sign-off\u201d facility; a user that logs out of CAS will still have access to your application if your application keeps a persistent session with the user. CAS does offer a Single Sign Out option, which, when activated, will notify an application that a user has logged out of CAS. The application can then terminate any remaining local sessions as well. See the Jasig documentation for more details. CAS does provide a \u201clogout\u201d URL that the user may visit; loading the URL causes CAS to forget about the user\u2019s prior authentication. Applications may link to this URL at https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/logout", "OTHER THINGS CAS CAN DO\n\nCAS lets applications opt out of its single sign-on facility. For applications that consider their data especially sensitive, this facility may be appropriate to ensure that a CAS-authenticated user is still present and hasn\u2019t, for instance, walked away from a public kiosk. Note that using this feature makes it difficult to integrate your application into a campus-wide portal and may disappoint users\u2019 expectations of single sign on. To use this option, you would add the parameter renew=true to the login and serviceValidate URLs. CAS also lets applications choose to not force a user to log in if they are not already logged in. This will guarantee that the user will not be interrupted by a login page, and allow the application to put up a generic (or gateway) page if the user is not currently logged in. This option is chosen by adding the parameter gateway=true to the login URL.", "OTHER CAS OPTIONS\n\nCAS offers some other options to allow applications to modify how they interact with CAS. The following options are extensions added to the SFU version of CAS, and are not available in the Jasig version of CAS.", "These options are:\n\nerror=error+message \u2013 If the application has determined that the user who has been successfully authenticated does not have access to the application, it can redirect to the login page again, this time using the renew=true option along with the error option to explain to the user why they need to try another user account. message=message+from+application \u2013 The application can choose to put a message to the user up on the login page. If this is not set, CAS will put a default \"You have requested access to a site that requires authentication\" message app=AppName \u2013 The application can specify its name so that CAS can put up a more specific \"Login required\" message. allow=handler1,handler2,\u2026 \u2013 CAS can use one or more \u201chandlers\u201d to authenticate a user. Each of the specified handlers will be tried in turn until it can be determined that the authentication has succeeded or failed. By default, the sfuhandler alone is used. If this option is used, it must be passed to both the login and serviceValidate URLs.", "The handlers that are available are:\n\n1. sfu \u2013 This is the default (i.e. if no allow list is given), and will match any SFU account. The serviceValidate call-back, will return a response like the following: <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationSuccess> <cas:user>userID</cas:user> <cas:authtype>sfu</cas:authtype> </cas:authenticationSuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> 2. alumni \u2013 This will match any alumni email address and password. The user must enter id@alumni.sfu.ca and their password. The following will be returned from the serviceValidate call-back: <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationSuccess> <cas:user>userID@alumni.sfu.ca</cas:user> <cas:authtype>alumni</cas:authtype> </cas:authenticationSuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> 3. staff 4. faculty 5. student 6. sponsored 7. apache - This was added to CAS to allow the Apache CAS module to authenticate accounts from a .htpasswd file serviceValidate call-back for this option: Some people have found it useful to use this from an application calling CAS directly to implement their own \"accounts\". Because CAS can't do the authentication for you, the password will be returned to your application. Because a password will be returned to you, CAS will not allow you to have an \"apache\" account that has the same id and password as an SFU account. The following would be returned from the <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationSuccess> <cas:user>id</cas:user> <cas:authtype>apache</cas:authtype> <cas:password>password</cas:password> </cas:authenticationSuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> 9. !mail-list - This allows access to members of a mail list. You specify an allow option with an exclamation mark followed by the mail list name. If you use the parameter: allow=!sfu-cas the following would be returned from the serviceValidate call-back if a member of that mail list logged in: <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationSuccess> <cas:user>ray</cas:user> <cas:authtype>sfu</cas:authtype> <cas:maillist>sfu-cas</cas:maillist> </cas:authenticationSuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> What Gets Passed Back By serviceValidate The serviceValidate URL will pass back an XML document indicating the success or failure of the validation. On failure, an error like the following will be returned: <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationFailure code=' ... '> Optional authentication failure message </cas:authenticationFailure> </cas:serviceResponse>", "indicating that the ticket was invalid and why, or:\n\n<cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationSuccess> <cas:user> userID </cas:user> <cas:authtype>sfu</cas:authtype> </cas:authenticationSuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> indicating that the validation succeeded. The number and types of keyword/value pairs varies depending on the application. The user and authtype keywords are always returned. Other items may be returned (e.g., see the allow option above).", "PROXY AUTHENTICATION\n\nIn a multi-tier CAS installation, an agent acting on behalf of a user, but without direct access to the user's cookie cache, may need to convince a third party that it represents the user legitimately. For example, a WebMail application that connects to a POP server to collect the user\u2019s email, would have to convince the POP server that it is acting legitimately on behalf of a particular user. Using proxy tickets, a back-end service may determine (a) what user is being impersonated; (b) who is handling the impersonation. These two determinations allow service to accept proxied credentials selectively.", "CAS\n\nThe Central Authentication Service: a trusted arbiter of authenticity. Service A web application that authenticates users via CAS. Proxy A service that wants to impersonate users to other services. Target (or back-end service ) A service that accepts impersonated (proxied) credentials from at least one particular proxy.", "TICKETS\n\nParties involved in a CAS authentication make use of tickets , or opaque strings that prove some assertion to CAS. CAS uses the following tickets: Ticket-granting cookie (TGC) A ticket encapulated by a cookie that is sent to the user's web browser and returned only to CAS, and only over a secured channel. This ticket establishes the user's identity with CAS and lets CAS act as a single sign-on system for the web. Service ticket (ST) A ticket sent by CAS, through the user's browser, to a service. Each ST may be used only once, and must be combined with the unique identifier for one specific service in order to be useful. (Put another way, a service that knows its own unique identifier will refuse to accept STs intended for another service. This prevents one service from mounting a \"man in the middle\" attack against another.) Proxy-granting ticket (PGT) A ticket sent by CAS to a service holding a valid ST (but see below). This ticket (associated with an individual service and an individual user) confers the ability to produce proxy tickets (see below). Proxy-granting ticket IOU (PGTIOU) A ticket sent by CAS alone in a service validation response, and with a PGT to the callback URL. It is the web application's responsibility to maintain a table to correlate PGTIOUs and PGTs (see below). Proxy ticket (PT) A ticket usable by a proxy to access a target by impersonating a single user. The", "PT\n\ncarries information about the proxy or proxies attempting to gain access. For targets that are also (second- or higher-level proxies), a", "PT\n\nmay be used to obtain a", "PGT\n\n, but this", "PGT\n\nwill preserve information about the linear series of proxies that lie between the user and the ultimate target.", "PROXY MECHANISM\n\nIf an application that is using CAS needs to be a proxy , and so needs a proxy ticket to pass on to a target application, the proxy applicationserviceValidate URL, The needs to pass an extra query parameter to the proxyCallbackUrl parameter is used to specify a URL that CAS will connect to with two query parameters: pgtID \u2013 the actual value representing the", "PGT\n\n. pgtIou - the PGTIOU contained in CAS's response to the web application's request. Your application has the responsibility to maintain a table to correlate PGTIOUs and PGTs. The CAS servicevalidate callback will then respond with the following: <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationSuccess> <cas:user> userID </cas:user> <cas:authtype>sfu</cas:authtype> <cas:proxyGrantingTicket>", "PGTIOU\n\n</cas:proxyGrantingTicket> </cas:authenticationSuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> Your application can now match the", "PGTIOU\n\nto get the", "PGT\n\nfrom the table that was setup by your applications proxyCallbackUrl. The proxy application can now obtain proxy tickets (", "Request:\n\nThe proxy application sends an HTTP request with two query parameters: pgt and targetService, representing respectively a", "PGT\n\nand the unique identifier (URL) corresponding to the target application to which the proxy application wishes to gain access. The URL to send the request to is: https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/proxy", "Response:\n\nA cas:proxyFailure message can be returned here for invalid or expired PGTs. On success, a message, of the following format, is sent by CAS to the application: <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:proxySuccess> <cas:proxyTicket>", "PT\n\n</cas:proxyTicket> </cas:proxySuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> This", "PT\n\nmay then be sent by the application to the target", "Request:\n\nThe target application sends an HTTP request with two query parameters: ticket and service, representing respectively the", "PT\n\nand the unique identifier (URL) of the target", "application. The URL to send the request to is:\n\nhttps://cas.sfu.ca/cas/proxyValidate", "Response:\n\nA cas:authenticationFailure message can be returned here for invalid or expired PTs. On success, a message, of the following format, is sent by CAS to the application: <cas:serviceResponse> <cas:authenticationSuccess> <cas:user> userID </cas:user> <cas:authtype>sfu</cas:authtype> <cas:proxyGrantingTicket>", "PGTIOU\n\n</cas:proxyGrantingTicket> <cas:proxies> <cas:proxy> proxy1 </cas:proxy> <cas:proxy> proxy2 </cas:proxy> <cas:proxy> proxy3 </cas:proxy> ... </cas:proxies> </cas:authenticationSuccess> </cas:serviceResponse> The target service may then make any access-control decisions it needs to make, based both on the username and on the proxy \u201cpath\u201d conveyed by the response from CAS. As the general format of this latest response message suggests, proxies may be \"chained\" \u2013 that is, applied successively \u2013 before an ultimate target is reached. This chaining is achieved by the added PGTIOU to this recent message \u2013 when target services implement the \"proxy granting\" protocol. Thus, a target service may act as a proxy as well. Calls to proxyValidate can also specify allow options. The default allow option is sfu, so if this option is not specified, only SFU accounts will be returned to the application.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Central Authentication Service (CAS)", "OVERVIEW\n\nBelow are some common troubleshooting steps for CAS.", "DETAILS\n\nThe single sign-on doesn\u2019t work across browsers. Open multiple CAS-enabled SFU applications in the same browser to avoid the chore of re-entering your login credentials. Signing out of a CAS-enabled application doesn\u2019t immediately sign you out of all opened CAS-enabled applications. Please lock or sign out of your device if you are momentarily stepping away or have finished your work. Not all SFU applications use CAS. Therefore, you will need to enter your SFU credentials to sign in non-CAS applications even if you have signed in CAS-enabled applications in the same browser. For users with access to multiple accounts (such as role account and personal computing ID), it is recommended to log out, open a new browser, or use a private browsing window to switch between accounts for access to applications.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Central Authentication Service (CAS)", "MOD_AUTH_CAS INTRODUCTION\n\nmod_auth_cas is an Apache module that uses CAS to protect static and dynamic web content served by the Apache HTTP Server.", "Note:\n\nThere is an older version of mod_auth_cas that was extensively modified to work with SFU CAS. This version will still work, but is no longer supported. It only works with Apache 2.2, and that version of Apache is no longer being maintained by The Apache Software Foundation. If you are currently using the old SFU mod_auth_cas, and want to upgrade Apache to version 2.4, see the documentation here on moving from the old SFU mod_auth_cas to the new mod_auth_cas .", "DETAILS\n\nOnce you have built and installed mod_auth_cas in your Apache modules directory (say /etc/httpd/modules), you would edit your Apache configuration to load the mod_auth_cas module with LoadModule auth_cas_module modules/mod_auth_cas.so You then need to add a few required parameters to configure mod_auth_cas CASLoginURL https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/login CASValidateURL https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/serviceValidate CASCookiePath /usr/local/apache2/cas/ mod_auth_cas needs to make a direct connection to the CASValidateURL to validate the Service Ticket from CAS when the user logs in. To allow the SSL connection to be made, you need to install the X509 certificate of the Certificate Authority for the CAS server in your certificate folder (default /etc/ssl/certs/). That certificate, the DigiCert Global G2 TLS RSA SHA256 2020 CA1 certificate, is available directly from DigiCert . You would then specify the directory containing that certificate using: CASCertificatePath /etc/ssl/certs/ You can then protect a directory in your Apache configuration by using: <Location /secured> Authtype CAS Require valid-user </Location> You can also protect directories by placing the contents of the Location block in .htaccess files.", "SUPPORTED REQUIRE DIRECTIVES\n\nRequire valid-user All valid users can access the resource. Require user userid [userid] ... Only the named users can access the resource. Require cas-attribute member:resource:dept:some-dept:some-group Only members of the named Grouper group can access the resource. You must grant the grprcas user READ and VIEW rights to your group. Only use policy groups for CAS access, not reference groups. Require cas-attribute member:mail-list DEPRECATED: Move to using Grouper groups. Only members of the named mail list can access the resource. Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:staff Only SFU staff can access the resource. Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:undergrad Only SFU undergrad students can access the source. Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:grad Only SFU grad students can access the resource. Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:faculty Only SFU faculty can access the resource. Require cas-attribute sfuEduPersonAffiliation:alumnus Only SFU alumni can access the resource. Require cas-attribute sfuIsLightweight:true Only SFU lightweight accounts can access the resource. Require cas-attribute sfuIsLightweight:false Only SFU fullweight account can access the resource.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Central Authentication Service (CAS)", "OVERVIEW\n\nmod_authn_cas is an Apache module that uses CAS to authenticate a user and authorize their access to web content served by an Apache HTTP Server. Because this module does not redirect to the CAS login page, it can be used when protecting an application that is not web based, such as WebDAV. This module is very basic and does not have any authorization features built in, so it relies on other modules or CAS itself to provide access control. Typically you would register your application (such as WebDAV) with CAS and specify what Required Attributes need to be specified.", "CONFIGURING MOD_AUTHN_CAS AT SFU\n\nThe first step is to download a copy of mod_authn_cas from here . You can then build and install the module. Once the module is installed in your Apache's module directory, you should specify the following in your Apache httpd.conf file: LoadModule authn_cas_module modules/mod_authn_cas.so You then need to add a few required parameters to configure mod_authn_cas CASRestURL https://cas.sfu.ca/cas/v1/tickets mod_authn_cas needs to make a direct connection to the CASRestURL to log the user in. To allow the SSL connection to be made, you need to install the X509 certificate of the Certificate Authority for the CAS server in your certificate folder (default /etc/ssl/certs/). That certificate is available at ThawtePremiumServerBundleCA-2018-v3.pem . You would then specify the directory containing that certificate using: CASCertificatePath /etc/ssl/certs/ You can then protect a directory in your Apache configuration by using: <Location /WebDAV> AuthType Basic AuthName \"Enter an SFU account.\" AuthBasicProvider cas Require valid-user </Location>", "SUPPORTED REQUIRE DIRECTIVES\n\nThe mod_authn_cas module doesn't support Require directives on its own, but built in modules like mod_auth_basic provide at least the following: Require valid-user Require user userid [userid] ... Other access control requirements can be specified in CAS when you register your CAS protected server/application.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management eSupport Migration", "OVERVIEW\n\nNeed to update your email routing to Service Hub? Changing delivery email address will require you to configuring your email account to route to Service Hub. There are two common cases", "to configure your email:\n\nFor Sponsored Account: Creating Inbox Rule on SFU Mail For Maillist: Adding New Member on Maillist", "Note:\n\nSelect one of the two guides depending if your email account is a sponsored account or a maillist. which email accounts do I need to change? All eSupport email points need to be changed and re-routed to Service Hub. Please take a look at our eSupport Email Routing List and look up your queue to see a list of email accounts that needs to be updated. is my email account a sponsored account or a maillist? Go to SFU Maillist and, on the \"Go to list\", your email address without \"@sfu.ca\" . If there is a search result, then your email account is a maillist. If not, your email account is a sponsored account. I can't make changes. who is the owner of my email account? Sponsored Account Go to the Sponsor Lookup App (you must be logged into a staff, faculty or sponsored account, and be connected to campus networks or SFU VPN). Enter the Sponsored Account Computing ID and you will see the owner listed. Maillist Go to SFU Maillist and, on the \"Go to list\", your email address without \"@sfu.ca\" . You will see the owner listed. For Sponsored Account: Creating Inbox Rule on SFU Mail Step 1. Go to on a web browser. Once you're logged into your sponsored account, select the Settings 'gear' icon on the top-right corner, then Options . Step 2. Under Mail > Automatic Processing , select Inbox and Sweep Rules . Then, select ' + ' to create a new Inbox Rule. Step 3. Enter the following details (shown in the screenshot) for the new inbox rule:", "Name:\n\nRedirect all messages to Service Hub [Apply to all messages]", "Redirect the message to, for example:\n\nsfutdx@sfu.ca \" (or the TDX ticket address associated to your Ticketing application) Select", "OK\n\nto create the new inbox rule, then Save to update your Inbox Rules. Step 4. Ensure that you select and delete existing Inbox Rules that redirect emails to eSupport (to esupport@rcg.sfu.ca). Select Save to update your Inbox Rules. This will avoid having SFU Mail routing to both Service Hub and eSupport. Congratulations! You've re-routed your sponsored account emails to Service Hub. You may repeat this guide for the rest of your sponsored accounts, or see the guide below if you need to change delivery email on a maillist. Be sure to test your email endpoints to ensure that incoming tickets are routed correctly to generate a ticket on Service Hub and not in eSupport. Check the details of the test email message to make sure it ended up in the correct Responsible Group on Service Hub and that the reply-to is correct. For Maillist: Adding new member on SFU Maillist Step 1. Go to SFU Maillist on a web browser. Once you're logged in, select Find maillists owned/managed by me , then find and select your maillist. Step 2. Select the Maillist members tab.", "Add, for example:\n\n\" sfutdx@sfu.ca \" (Use the email associated to your ticket application) then select Save Changes . Step 3. Select the Sender restrictions tab. Ensure that your Sender Policy are unchecked for restricted sender, then select Save Changes . Step 4. Go back to the Maillist members tab. Select the delete 'trash' icon on your existing eSupport email (esupport@rcg.sfu.ca), then select Save Changes . This will avoid having maillist routing to both Service Hub and eSupport. Congratulations! You've re-routed your maillist emails to Service Hub. You may repeat this guide for the rest of your maillists, or see the guide at the top of the page if you need to change delivery email for a sponsored account. Be sure to test your email endpoints to ensure that incoming tickets are routed correctly to generate a ticket on Service Hub and not in eSupport. Check the details of the test email message to make sure it ended up in the correct Responsible Group on Service Hub and that the reply-to is correct.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management eSupport Migration", "OVERVIEW\n\nMoving tickets from eSupport to Service Hub will require you to recreate or forward to Service Hub. There are three options", "to move tickets to Service Hub:\n\nOption 1: Submitting a webform Option 2: Forward a ticket from eSupport to \"sfutdx@sfu.ca\" Option 3: Create and send an email to \"sfutdx@sfu.ca\"", "Note:\n\nAt this time, moving tickets from eSupport to Service Hub has to be done manually and one-by-one.", "DETAILS\n\nOption 1: Submitting a webform Step 1. Go to servicehub.sfu.ca and search for your service. Step 2 . Select \"Report a problem\" or \"Request Service\" button to open the webform. Step 3 . Copy and paste the details from your eSupport ticket onto the webform. Include any attachments if necessary. Step 4 . Submit the webform. Congratulations! You've emailed your eSupport ticket to Service Hub. You may repeat these steps for the rest of your eSupport tickets you wish to forward. Be sure to try one ticket first to ensure it's being moved to the correct Service / Group on Service Hub. Option 2: Forward a ticket from eSupport to \"sfutdx@sfu.ca\" Caution! Due to the reliability issues with the eSupport platform, not all forwarding request may go through. We strongly advise using Options 1 or 3 as a result. Step 1. Go to esupport.sfu.ca and open the ticket you wish to move to Service Hub. Step 2 . Select \"Forward\" under the Ticket History. Step 3 . Enter \"sfutdx@sfu.ca\" on the \"To\" field. Step 4 . Select \"Forward Message\". Congratulations! You've emailed your eSupport ticket to Service Hub. You may repeat these steps for the rest of your eSupport tickets you wish to forward. Be sure to try one ticket first to ensure it's being moved to the correct Service / Group on Service Hub. Option 3: Create and send an email to \"sfutdx@sfu.ca\" Step 1. Create a new email on or your preferred email application. Step 2 . Enter \"sfutdx@sfu.ca\" on the \"To\" field. Step 3 . Copy and paste the details from your eSupport ticket onto the Subject and Message Body. Include any attachments if necessary. Step 4 . Send the email. Congratulations! You've emailed your eSupport ticket to Service Hub. You may repeat these steps for the", "DETAILS\n\n\"sfutdx@sfu.ca\" on the \"To\" field. Step 3 . Copy and paste the details from your eSupport ticket onto the Subject and Message Body. Include any attachments if necessary. Step 4 . Send the email. Congratulations! You've emailed your eSupport ticket to Service Hub. You may repeat these steps for the rest of your eSupport tickets you wish to forward. Be sure to try one ticket first to ensure it's being moved to the correct Service / Group on Service Hub.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Teams To get started with Microsoft 365 at SFU, follow the steps below: Log in at Microsoft 365 Portal Install on devices (Optional)", "STEP 1. LOG IN TO THE MICROSOFT 365 PORTAL\n\n1. To sign in, visit the Microsoft 365 Portal . Visit the M365 Portal 2. At the Microsoft login screen, enter your SFU email address (i.e., yourSFUcomputingID @sfu.ca ). 3. You will be re-directed to the SFU CAS login screen. Log in using your SFU Computing ID and password .", "STEP 2. INSTALL MICROSOFT 365 APPS ON PERSONAL DEVICES (OPTIONAL)\n\nAll current SFU faculty, staff and students are eligible to install Microsoft 365 for free on up to 5 individual-use devices , such as a laptop, tablet, or smartphone. 1. Log in to the Microsoft 365 Portal . Please refer to the section above for log in instructions. 2. Select Install Office , located at the upper right corner of the page. 3. Choose Office 365 apps from the drop-down menu. 4. Follow the on-screen directions to complete the installation. For a step-by-step illustration on how to install Microsoft 365 on a PC or Mac, please visit Microsoft's Support Page .", "WHO CAN USE MICROSOFT 365?\n\nAll current SFU faculty , staff and students are eligible to install Microsoft 365 for free on up to 5 individual-use devices , such as laptop, tablet, or smartphone. Note. The availability of the individual applications within M365 may vary. Please refer to the application pages for more details on eligibility: Microsoft Office Microsoft Teams Microsoft OneDrive", "SFU\n\nretirees , emeritus and adjunct professors are eligible for Office 365 online to help facilitate working with the university community. This furnishes all the Office services, but does not allow for desktop installs of Office. The Office suite is still available in a browser.", "INDIVIDUAL-USE\n\nMicrosoft 365 is available to all current SFU faculty, staff, and students with a Microsoft 365 account. For a step-by-step illustration on how to install Microsoft 365 on a PC or Mac, please visit Microsoft's Support Page .", "UNIVERSITY-MANAGED\n\nIf you are an SFU faculty/staff and you hold a university-managed device, Microsoft Teams, OneDrive, and Office 2019 applications should be pre-installed on your device. Please submit a service request to the IT Service Desk or contact your local IT representative for software inquiries/installations. Related Articles (1) Additional Learning Resources for Copilot Resources and learning paths that can help you get started with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft OneDrive Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting and synchronization service for individual use at the university.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft OneDrive", "OVERVIEW\n\nMS Office applications will attempt to sync Office files that you open with OneDrive. This page outlines the steps needed to resolve the \"Upload Blocked\" error message when you open a synced Office file from your OneDrive desktop: Fixing sync conflicts for Office files (Windows) Fixing sync conflicts for Office files (Mac)", "FIXING SYNC CONFLICTS FOR OFFICE FILES (WINDOWS)\n\nStep 1. Click the OneDrive cloud icon in your taskbar notification area. Step 2. On OneDrive, click \"Help & Settings\" on the bottom right corner. From the pop-up menu, select \"Settings\". Step 3. On the pop-up window, select the \"Office\" tab and uncheck \"Use Office applications to sync Office files that I open\".", "FIXING SYNC CONFLICTS FOR OFFICE FILES (MAC)\n\nStep 1. Click the OneDrive cloud icon in your menu bar. Step 2. On OneDrive, select \"More\" on the bottom right corner. From the pop-up menu, select \"Preferences\". Step 3. On the pop-up window, select the \"Office\" tab and uncheck \"Use Office applications to sync Office files that I open\". Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft OneDrive Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting and synchronization service for individual use at the university.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft OneDrive Overview Browse frequently asked questions about Microsoft OneDrive.", "FACULTY, STAFF, AND STUDENTS\n\nOneDrive is available to all current SFU faculty, staff and students with a Microsoft 365 account .", "OTHER\n\nThere are no current plans to provide access to SFU alumni.", "ARE THERE ANY COSTS TO USING ONEDRIVE?\n\nMicrosoft OneDrive is free for all current SFU faculty, staff and students.", "HOW DO I GET ACCESS TO ONEDRIVE?\n\n1. Access Microsoft OneDrive OneDrive Web: Visit M365 Portal > Select OneDrive icon OneDrive Desktop: Launch the software on your desktop", "INDIVIDUAL-USE\n\nTo download Microsoft OneDrive on your individual-use device , visit Microsoft OneDrive's download page for more information.", "UNIVERSITY-MANAGED\n\nIf you are an SFU faculty/staff and you hold a university-managed device , OneDrive should be pre-installed on your device. Please submit a service request to the IT Service Desk for any software inquiries or installations.", "CAN I USE ROLE OR SPONSORED ACCOUNTS ON ONEDRIVE?\n\nRole or sponsored accounts can use OneDrive to store and share documents.", "IS ONEDRIVE AVAILABLE ON LINUX?\n\nAt this time, OneDrive is available as a progressive web app on Linux. As an alternative, you'll also be able to access the web version of OneDrive.", "DOES ONEDRIVE SUPPORT WEBDAV CONNECTIONS?\n\nOneDrive does not support WebDAV connections.", "WHAT IS MY STORAGE LIMIT FOR ONEDRIVE?\n\nThe storage limit for OneDrive is", "1 TB\n\n.", "WHAT IS THE SIZE LIMIT FOR A SINGLE FILE ON ONEDRIVE?\n\nThe size limit for a single file on OneDrive is", "250GB\n\n.", "ARE THERE BACKUPS OF MY FILES ON ONEDRIVE?\n\nNeither Microsoft nor SFU provide indefinite backups to your files stored on OneDrive. You are responsible for backing up your files if you require additional data resiliency. However, OneDrive does provide robust features such as soft-deletes ( Recycling Bin ), file versioning , and account restoration to help address potential file corruption, accidental changes, or deletions. If you have accidentally deleted a file or folder, you may be able to restore them within 93 days. For more details, visit the Microsoft Support page on Restoring deleted files or folders in OneDrive .", "CAN I SYNC FILES SHARED BY OTHERS ON MY COMPUTER?\n\nYou can only sync shared folders on your computer. If you wish to sync a shared file , ask the file owner to place the file into a folder and share the entire folder with you.", "To sync a shared folder via the OneDrive desktop app:\n\nSign in to the Microsoft 365 Portal . Select the OneDrive icon on the left navigation menu. On the OneDrive page, select \u201cShared\u201d on the left navigation menu bar. Under the \u201cShared with you\u201d tab, go to the shared folder you wish to sync and select \u201cAdd shortcut to My Files\u201d. Your OneDrive desktop app will automatically sync and the folder should appear on your desktop within a few minutes.", "Note:\n\nIf you've previously set your OneDrive's desktop app to only sync specific folders, you will need to manually enable syncing for the newly shared folder in the OneDrive settings. For more details on syncing, visit the Microsoft support page on Add and sync shared folders to OneDrive .", "WHEN I LAUNCH ONEDRIVE ON A BROWSER, IT SHOWS A BLANK SCREEN. WHAT SHOULD I DO?\n\nYour web browser may not be compatible with the application. Update your web browser or switch to a different web browser, such as Chrome or Firefox.", "WHY AM I GETTING AN UPLOAD ERROR MESSAGE WHEN I UPLOAD FILES TO ONEDRIVE?\n\nThere can be many reasons to why your files cannot be uploaded on to OneDrive, but here is a list of the most common reasons: Your file name contains special characters or unorthodox naming that conflicts with Microsoft's operation system. Your file or folder path is too long (e.g., having too many folders within folders) Your file is too large to be uploaded. For more details, visit the Microsoft Support page on Restrictions and limitations in OneDrive .", "WHY CAN\u2019T OTHERS EDIT THE FILE I SHARED WITH THEM?\n\nThe default setting on shared files are view-only . To modify the editing permission of your file, visit our how-to page on how to change sharing permission for more details.", "HOW SECURE IS ONEDRIVE?\n\nOneDrive at SFU is protected by enterprise-level security from Microsoft. To learn more about Microsoft\u2019s trust and security related information, visit the Microsoft Trust Center .", "WHERE IS THE DATA STORED? IS ONEDRIVE FIPPA-COMPLIANT?\n\nAll data uploaded to OneDrive at SFU are stored within Canada and are protected under the BC Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA) . All members of the SFU community are reminded to only share personally identifiable information (PII) as permitted under FIPPA.", "CAN I UPLOAD AND/OR SHARE FILES THAT MAY CONTAIN PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION (PII) ON ONEDRIVE?\n\nAll members of the SFU community are reminded to only share personally identifiable information (PII) as permitted under", "FIPPA\n\n. Files that may be personally identifiable should be shared directly to specific people , and they should have a purpose of accessing those files. We do not recommend sharing PII via sharable links that do not restrict access. If you are unsure which sharing permission to use, please see our recommendations on the usage of sharing permissions . For more information on how to identify, understand, manage, and use university data appropriately, see the SFU Data Security Standard page. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft OneDrive Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting and synchronization service for individual use at the university.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft OneDrive Overview Explore Microsoft online resources to manage your OneDrive files. This includes, uploading, sharing, deleting and restoring files. OneDrive File Management Stay on top of your files in OneDrive by exploring Microsoft online resources and SFU specific advice for sharing within the university.", "ADD & UPLOAD FILES/FOLDERS\n\nUpload files or folders Create files or folders Using Office for the web in OneDrive", "COLLABORATE AND SHARE\n\nManage access for shared files/folders Manage files shared by you Manage files shared with you Stop or change your shares Share a file or folder at SFU Change Sharing Permission Recommendation on Sharing Permissions", "DELETE, ARCHIVE AND RESTORE\n\nDelete a file or folder Restore a deleted file or folder Restore a previous version of a file Restore your OneDrive", "SYNC FILES\n\nSet up file syncing for OneDrive (Windows) Set up file syncing for OneDrive (Mac OS) Choose which folders to sync to your computer Save disk space with files on-demand (Windows) Save disk space with files on-demand (Mac)", "HOW TO SHARE A FILE OR FOLDER\n\nYou can share and collaborate on files and/or folders with others on OneDrive. You can also see who a OneDrive file is shared with or stop sharing at any time. Step 1. Go to the OneDrive website and . Step 2. Right-click on the file or folder you wish to share. Select \"Share\" from the drop-down menu. Alternatively, select the file or folder and select \"Share\" on the top toolbar. Step 3. In the \"Send link\" window, you can send a file/folder link to specific individual(s) by including their name, group or email. Alternatively, you can copy a link of this file/folder by selecting \"Copy link\" at the bottom.", "Note:\n\nThe default for sharing permission for all OneDrive files at SFU is set to \"People in Simon Fraser University (1sfu) with the link can view\".", "HOW TO CHANGE THE SHARING PERMISSIONS FOR A FILE OR FOLDER\n\nComplete the steps above to continue with the instructions below. Step 1. In the \"Send link\" window, select the arrow beside \"People in Simon Fraser University (1sfu) with the link can view\" to change the sharing permission for the file/folder link. Step 2. In the \"Link settings\" window, choose the sharing permission you would like to apply for this file/folder. You can also set \"allow editing\" or \"block download\" in this settings window.", "RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE USAGE OF SHARING PERMISSIONS\n\nPermissions Implications Recommended Usage People in SFU with the link Gives access to any SFU users who receives this link , whether they received it directly from you or forwarded from someone else. For mixed files", ":\n\nData that may not be sensitive or confidential in nature, but should be restricted from to the general public or the media. People with existing access This does not change the permissions on the item. For internal files", ":\n\nUse this if you just want to send a link to somebody who already has access. This does not change the permissions on the item. Specific people Gives access only to specific SFU users or external email addresses to use the link and access the file. If people forward the sharing invitation, only people who already have access to the item will be able to use the link. For internal files", ":\n\nData that could be sensitive or confidential in nature. Such data should be limited to employees and other authorized users. Anyone with the link Gives access to anyone who receives this link , whether they received it directly from you or forwarded from someone else.", "For public access files:\n\nData that is generally available to all employees, the general public, and the media. Password protection or link expiration is highly recommended for additional restrictions. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft OneDrive Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting and synchronization service for individual use at the university.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft OneDrive Overview Looking to get quickly up to speed with OneDrive? In this article we'll walk through the basics of how to set up OneDrive. Sign in and Access OneDrive Getting Started with OneDrive Set up OneDrive on Desktop Devices (Windows) Set up OneDrive on Desktop Devices (Mac) Add an Extra Account to OneDrive on your Desktop Device Remove Accounts for OneDrive on your Desktop Device For a quick start guide, see Microsoft's OneDrive Quick Start Guide . To Sign in and Access OneDrive", "Note:\n\nPrior to accessing the Microsoft OneDrive, you will need to sign up for an SFU Microsoft 365 account via the SFU sign up page .", "Step 1. Select your method of accessing Microsoft Teams:\n\nOneDrive web : Visit M365 Portal > Select OneDrive icon OneDrive desktop : Launch the software on your desktop OneDrive mobile app : Launch the application on your mobile device How do I install OneDrive on my personal or university-managed device(s)? Personal Devices University Managed Devices To download Microsoft OneDrive on your individual-use device , visit Microsoft OneDrive's download page for more information. If you are an SFU faculty/staff and you hold a university-managed device , OneDrive should be pre-installed on your device. Please submit a service request to the IT Service Desk for any software inquiries/installations. Step 2.", "Log into Microsoft OneDrive:\n\na) At the Microsoft login screen, enter your SFU email address (i.e., yourSFUcomputingID@sfu.ca ). b) You will see a page that says \u201cTaking you to your organization\u2019s sign-in page\u201d and will be redirected to SFU\u2019s Central Authentication Service (CAS) page. c) Log in using your SFU Computing ID and password. Enter your multi-factor authentication code when prompted. Get Started with OneDrive Connect with Microsoft's website for a comprehensive overview in getting started with OneDrive. Getting Started with OneDrive basics Set Up OneDrive on Desktop (non-mobile) Devices See our top Microsoft documentation picks for setting up OneDrive on desktop devices (such as PC or a MacBook). Set up OneDrive on desktop (Windows) Set up OneDrive on desktop (Mac OS) Add Another Account in OneDrive Desktop To add another account to OneDrive on your desktop, you can do so according to the device you are using: Add another account to a university-managed device Add another account to an personal device University-Managed Devices", "Note:\n\nYou can only add additional SFU Microsoft 365 accounts to OneDrive on your university-managed device. Any non-SFU Microsoft 365 accounts cannot be added. To add another account to your OneDrive desktop, follow the instructions outlined on Microsoft's How to add an account in OneDrive page. Once you've successfully added additional SFU Microsoft 365 accounts to OneDrive on your university-managed device, you will see multiple blue OneDrive icons which resemble the different accounts. Personal Devices", "Note:\n\nYou can add a maximum of one personal account and nine work/school accounts to OneDrive on your individual-use device. To add another account to your OneDrive desktop, follow the instructions outlined on Microsoft's How to add an account in OneDrive page. Once you've successfully added another account to your individual-use device, you will see multiple OneDrive icons which resemble the different accounts. A blue icon resembles a work/school account, and a grey icon resembles a personal account. Remove an Account in OneDrive Desktop To remove an account from OneDrive desktop, see Microsoft's documentation Remove an account in OneDrive desktop . Related Articles (1) Recommended Usage for File Storage and Collaboration Learn more about the differences between Microsoft Teams and OneDrive for file storage and collaboration. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft OneDrive Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting and synchronization service for individual use at the university.", "Overview Learn more about the differences between Microsoft Teams and OneDrive for file storage and collaboration. Details Below is a comparison between Microsoft Teams and OneDrive at SFU for file storage and collaboration: Microsoft Teams OneDrive Primary Purpose Collaborative file storage needs involving only faculty and staff, or external groups Individual file storage needs involving only faculty and staff File Ownership Files uploaded to Microsoft Teams remain within that team regardless of the uploader's membership status. Files uploaded to OneDrive need to be managed by the owner of that OneDrive . Files might get removed once the owner lost access to OneDrive at SFU. Recommended usage Shared working documents Individual working documents Compatibility (Windows/Mac, Linux, iOS/Android) \u2713 ! Note. Linux users can only access OneDrive through web browser and/or third-party apps Access (Web, offline and off-campus) \u2713 \u2713 Note. Offline file access is only available if files were previously synced locally to your device using the OneDrive app File Synchronization \u2713 \u2713 Viewing/Editing (co-authoring, concurrent editing, version history) \u2713 \u2713 File Search Filters x \u2713 Sharing (sharing permission, blocking edits/downloads) \u2713 \u2713 Backup/Recovery (Recovery period from recycle bin) \u2713 \u2713 For collaborative file storage needs involving students (i.e., faculty to student), Canvas is the recommended solution until further notice. Overview Learn more about the differences between Microsoft Teams and OneDrive for file storage and collaboration.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management eSupport Migration", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article contains a checklist of items to guide the transition from eSupport to Service Hub.", "I.S WEBSITE PAGES AND REQUEST FORMS\n\nRequest forms on the Information Systems website will still operate and generate a ticket in ServiceHub . As we make a complete transition to ServiceHub, some Request Forms on the I.S. Website will redirect to the ServiceHub \"version\" of the Request Form. Service pages on the Information Systems website will remain in place for the near future . On each of the service pages on the Information Systems website, we have included button links to ServiceHub \"version\" of the service pages..", "SUPPORT EMAILS AND ESUPPORT QUEUES\n\nSupport email addresses attached to ITS eSupport queues (i.e, itshelp@sfu.ca attached to ITS Help Desk BBY) will s tart routing to ServiceHub after July 9 . No new incoming tickets will arrive in ITS eSupport queues after July 9 for ITS eSupport queues. New tickets for ITS queues will appear in ServiceHub. Support email addresses attached to Academic IT eSupport queues and non-ITS queues will start routing to ServiceHub once they are available to make the transition to ServiceHub. No new incoming tickets will arrive to these eSupport queues once they have made the transition to ServiceHub. esupport Nothing will change on eSupport and will remain accessible, including eSupport queues that have transitioned to ServiceHub. To ensure there are minimal disruptions to requestors, nothing will be set to read-only. You will still be able to resolve in-progress tickets in eSupport, including eSupport queues that have transitioned to ServiceHub. There will be no outage on eSupport or ServiceHub to ensure that no requests are lost.", "CHECK YOUR RESPONSIBLE GROUP TO ENSURE CORRECT MEMBERSHIP\n\nLog into ServiceHub Ticketing Portal (TDNext) , then navigate to the ITS Ticketing App > Groups . Find your Responsible Group and ensure that the membership is correct. If you need to make adjustments, visit Adding and Removing members on Responsible Group .", "ASK YOUR TEAM TO FAMILIARIZE WITH SERVICEHUB TICKETING PORTAL (TDNEXT)\n\nEnsure that your team (members of your Responsible Group) are able to sign in to the ServiceHub Ticketing Portal (TDNext) . Additionally, provide the ServiceHub resources", "so your team is prepared to use ServiceHub:\n\nGetting Started and Training Resources on ServiceHub eSupport vs ServiceHub Comparison Chart", "RESOLVE AND CLOSE YOUR ESUPPORT TICKETS\n\nTo minimize the impact during and after the transition to ServiceHub, we strongly encourage you to resolve any open eSupport tickets that you're able to. For details on eSupport behaviours after transitioning, see Continue monitoring your eSupport queues for any activity on this article.", "MAKING THE TRANSITION:\n\nFor Enterprise IT and ITS queues For most users, no action needed. IT Services will automatically complete the transition for ITS queues on July 11. ITS groups who have unique eSupport setups will be contacted to assist with the transition. For members of the local IT community Once you are ready to transition to eSupport, you will have to update the delivery email address from \"esupport@rcg.sfu.ca\" to \"sfutdx@sfu.ca\" for each of your email support points . Once you make this change, new incoming emails from your support points will automatically generate a ticket on ServiceHub in the corresponding Responsible Group. For instructions, visit Change the delivery email address . If you need assistance with this process, you may request additional support at ESM Request a Service .", "TEST YOUR EMAIL SUPPORT POINTS\n\nAfter the transition, test your email support points to ensure that incoming tickets are routed correctly to generate a ticket on Service Hub and not in eSupport. Check the details of the test email message to make sure it ended up in the correct Responsible Group on Service Hub and that the reply-to is the ServiceHub email.", "CONTINUE MONITORING YOUR ESUPPORT QUEUES FOR ANY ACTIVITY\n\nSince not every eSupport queue will immediately transition to ServiceHub on launch date (such as some non-ITS groups), we recommend you to continue monitoring your eSupport queues to see if any correspondences or tickets go to your eSupport queue. For in-progress and open tickets, client replies will still appear on eSupport. To avoid working within two ticketing apps, we recommend that you resolve the ticket or advise your clients on open tickets to create a new ticket on ServiceHub then close your eSupport tickets.", "FAQ\n\nWhat happens if I don't resolve and close my eSupport tickets before transitioning? Nothing will happen to those tickets after transitioning, however, resolving and closing tickets ensure that you don't continue visiting both eSupport and ServiceHub. Clients can still respond by email to existing or unresolved eSupport tickets and those messages will still route and appear in eSupport. On existing or unresolved tickets, we recommend you to resolve those tickets or advise the requestor to create a new ticket on ServiceHub if they wish to receive further assistance then close your eSupport tickets. I don't know my email support points. How do I find out my email support points? All eSupport email points need to be changed and re-routed to Service Hub. Please take a look at our eSupport Email Routing List and look up your queue to see a list of email accounts that needs to be updated. I can't log into the ServiceHub Ticketing Portal (TDNext). How do I get access? There are two common reasons you may have not have access to the ticketing app: You're not on one of the TDX Responsible Group Maillist to be given technician role. Ask your service owner/manager to add you to the \"tdx-group-<responsible group>\" maillist. You're using a sponsored account. All staff/faculty accounts have an account by default with ServiceHub. If you would like to use a sponsored account, submit a request with ESM Request a Service . Can I migrate all my eSupport tickets to ServiceHub? At this time, moving tickets from eSupport to Service Hub has to be done manually and one-by-one. Please take a look at Moving Tickets from eSupport to ServiceHub . Which are the Phase 2 Groups that will transition to ServiceHub at a later date? To assist ticket management and workflows with Phase 1", "FAQ\n\nmoving tickets from eSupport to Service Hub has to be done manually and one-by-one. Please take a look at Moving Tickets from eSupport to ServiceHub . Which are the Phase 2 Groups that will transition to ServiceHub at a later date? To assist ticket management and workflows with Phase 1 groups during the transition, here is a list of Phase 2 groups that will transition to ServiceHub at a later date: Advancement & Alumni Engagement CFD Pivot 2020 CMPT Tech Support Communications and Marketing CRM Support Data Warehouse FAS Tech FITS eTRACS", "IRP\n\nLifelong Learning Room Finder Support Student Services", "SUPPORT RESOURCES\n\nIf you have questions, connect with us at MS Teams - One I.S - TeamDynamix Channel or submitting a request at Enterprise Service Management .", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Service Managers", "OVERVIEW\n\nTo add or remove members in your Responsible Group, the service owner or manager will need to edit the membership of the corresponding TDX maillist. Note : Do not add new SFU users directly in the TeamDynamix application. There are certain procedures in place to ensure that new SFU users are given the correct role and licensing as needed. If you are looking to on-board a ticketing technician, see How to gain access to ServiceHub Ticketing App .", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. Log in to the SFU Maillist Manager portal . Step 2 . Click Find Maillists. Step 3. Select Lists I own/manage in the drop-down menu for Preset Searches. Step 4. Find and select your TDX Responsible Group maillist named \" tdx-group-<your responsible group> \" (for example, tdx-group-its-servicedesk-bby). Step 5. Add or remove members by using their SFU email, then select Save Changes . Note : Adding or removing members on your Responsible Group usually take up to 24 hours for changes to be in effect. If you don't see your Responsible Group maillist, you may not be a manager of the maillist. Submit a request on ServiceHub Enterprise Service Management for further assistance.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management eSupport Migration", "OVERVIEW\n\nUnlike eSupport, there are two main channels for communicating ticket updates with requestors in TeamDynamix. The first is via traditional email (notifying) , while the second is via the ticket feed (commenting) . In this article, we'll provide an overview of the two and what you can expect for commenting versus notifying in TeamDynamix.", "DETAILS\n\nThere are two important sections to know about when updating a ticket in TeamDynamix. Both are independent from each other but can control how a requestor receives updates. The first is the \"comments\" section, which adds a comment to the ticket feed . Unlike eSupport, comments can be both private or public depending on what the \" Make comments private...", "\" option is set to:\n\nComments that are private, will only be visible to other ticketing agents. In addition to commenting, the \"Notify\" section also plays a role in how updates are sent. Notify determines if an email notification is sent to whoever is listed in the notify fields. Unlike eSupport, you must ensure the requestors are included in the \"Notify\" field to notify the them of an update. Note : Both the commenting and notify fields can be used in combination with each other . It is possible to mark a comment as private but still notify a requestor if they are included in the notify field. This will cause anyone notified to see the private comment. See our", "FAQ\n\nfor details on this behaviour.", "WHAT IS THE TICKET \"FEED\" AND HOW DOES IT RELATE TO COMMENTS?\n\nThe ticket feed is a list of updates or changes associated with a ticket. Many actions (such as ticket attribute changes...etc.) will be only visible to ticket agents in the ITS Tickets application, however, comments for a ticket can also be available to . When making a public ( non-private", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management eSupport Migration", "OVERVIEW\n\nBelow is a quick guide to the similarities between eSupport and ServiceHub on terminology and functionality.", "COMPARISON CHART\n\neSupport ServiceHub Login https://esupport.sfu.ca/ Login https://servicehub.sfu.ca/tickets Queue Responsible Group Query Filter Results Take Take Untake Reassign Note: Do not use \"Unassign\". Tickets don't move back to your Responsible Group and will get lost. Reassign the ticket back to your Responsible Group. History Feed Reply Comment/Update (with \"only visible to ITS Tickets users\" unchecked) Note: \"Comment\" is to send a message; \"Update\" is to send a message that includes a ticket status change or attachment. See Notifying Others of Updates for details. Comment Comment/Update (with \"only visible to ITS Tickets users\" checked) Note: \"Comment\" is to send a message; \"Update\" is to send a message that includes a ticket status change or attachment. See Notifying Others of Updates for details. Bookmarking Flagging Note: To view your Flagged tickets, you will have to configure your ticket desktop. See How to Customize Your Ticketing Desktop to include \"My Flagged Tickets\". Attachments Attachments (under \"Update\") Admin CC'ing Adding \"People\" & Notifying Note: Similar to \"Admin CC behaviour\", Frank and Jane will receive email notifications when the Requestor replies/sends a message to the ticket. Merge Merge Linking Parent/Child", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents IT Technicians Training Sessions - Videos IT Technicians Training Video", "June 23, 2022 - Video Timestamps:\n\nWhat is ServiceHub (TeamDynamix)? \u2014 2:21 \u2014 5:04 Publishing Knowledge Base Articles \u2014 19:53 Ticket Handling \u2014 24:12 Break \u2014 1:01:28 to 1:06:32 Workflow (Overview only, not used yet) \u2014 1:13:37 \"My Work\" App (Overview only, not used yet) \u2014 1:32:22 Desktop Layout Customization \u2014 1:39:49 Report Creation (to be put on Desktop) \u2014 1:47:35 Closing Remarks \u2014 1:53:19 Training Agenda & List of Questions and Answers (QAs) Available on the Attachments section on this page, on the Right Hand Side Frame.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article contains frequently asked questions about ServiceHub Ticketing App (TDNext) for ticketing agents and technicians. General What is ServiceHub, TeamDynamix, Enterprise Service Management, etc.? Enterprise Service Management (ESM) is the overarching service run by IT Services that utilizes the different suite of tools provided by TeamDynamix. This includes IT Service Management (ITSM) and Project Portfolio Management (PPM) in the future.", "See the architecture below:\n\nCan I use a sponsored account with ServiceHub Ticketing App? Yes, however, not all sponsored accounts will have an account on ServiceHub (TeamDynamix account) by default. If you cannot log in with your sponsored account, see How to gain access to ServiceHub Ticketing App . I can't log into the ServiceHub Ticketing Portal (TDNext). How do I get access? There are two common reasons you may have not have access to the ticketing app: You're not on one of the TDX Responsible Group Maillist to be given technician role. Ask your service owner/manager to add you to a Responsible Group . You're using a sponsored account or is outside of ITS and haven't been registered on the TDNext application. To gain access, see How to gain access to ServiceHub Ticketing App . Notifications and Messaging Who gets an email notification when I comment on a ticket? By default, no one will receive an email notification when you comment on a ticket regardless of the \"Only visible to ITS Tickets User\" checkbox. Only users selected on the \"Notify\" field when commenting or updating a ticket will receive an email notification. Who gets an email notification when the requestor replies to the ticket or my comment? Everyone on the \"People\" tab of the ticket will receive an email notification of the Requestor's email reply or comments. By default, it will only be the user/group set as the Primary Responsibility. Adding additional Contacts on the \"People\" tab will allow the user to receive email notification when the Requestor replies or comments. What is the difference between \"Comment\" and \"Update\" on a ticket? The \"Comment\" feature is typically used to send a message quickly . The \"Update\" feature provides a more versatile function of \"Comment\" by popping out and showing more fields and features.", "See the architecture below:\n\nemail notification when the Requestor replies or comments. What is the difference between \"Comment\" and \"Update\" on a ticket? The \"Comment\" feature is typically used to send a message quickly . The \"Update\" feature provides a more versatile function of \"Comment\" by popping out and showing more fields and features. In addition to sending a message, \"Update\" can change a ticket status or send an attachment . What does the \"only visible to ITS Tickets user\" check box do? Sending a private message (through comment or update) with the box checked", "will do the following:\n\nPost a message on the ticket feed that only viewable on the ITS Ticketing App / TDNext (only to those who have access to the ITS Ticketing App). If you have selected to notify individuals, all the individuals selected to be notified will receive an email notification with the message (regardless if they are ticket agents or an external email). Sending a public message (through comment or update) with this box unchecked", "will do the following:\n\nIf you have no one selected to be notified, no one will receive an email notification, including the Requestor. Can I send a ticket message to an external email? Yes, you can send a message to an external, non-SFU email on the \"Other Email Addresses\" field under \"Update\" on a ticket. How do I add a Comment Template for ticket responses? \"Comment Templates\" are available to all ticketing agents on the ServiceHub Ticketing App. If you wish to add a \"Comment Template\", please submit a request at ESM Request a Service . How do I Add a Comment signature on the ServiceHub Ticketing App? At this time, ServiceHub does not support a way to handle signatures. You'll have to copy/paste it from another source each time you send a message or use a browser plug in. How do I resolve a ticket without notifying the requestor? To change the status of a ticket without notifying, you can \"Edit\" or \"Update\" the ticket status. Ensure that you have the \"Notify\" field empty. Are requestors able to reply to a resolved or closed ticket? Yes. If a ticket status is set to \"Resolved\", Requestors replying to the ticket within 3 business days will set the ticket status to \"In Progress\". If a ticket status is set to \"Resolved\" and 3 business days have elapsed, the ticket status will automatically be set to \"Closed\" and further replies from the Requestor will generate a new ticket. Ticket Management What is the difference between resolved and closed for ticket status? When a ticket is \"Resolved\", any replies from the Requestor will set the ticket status back to \"In Progress\". When a ticket is \"Closed\", any replies from the Requestor will generate a new ticket. A client used an incorrect form and I have a ticket", "will do the following:\n\nand closed for ticket status? When a ticket is \"Resolved\", any replies from the Requestor will set the ticket status back to \"In Progress\". When a ticket is \"Closed\", any replies from the Requestor will generate a new ticket. A client used an incorrect form and I have a ticket that I don't support. What should I do? We recommend that you reassign the ticket to the Responsibility Group, \"ITS Service Desk (BBY)\". They are the most knowledgeable on triaging tickets and will be able to direct it to the correct Responsible Group. Do I have to enter in the \"Estimated Hours\" for my tickets? That would depend on your Responsible Group. Some Service Owners and Managers may use feature to assist with service management, such as for resourcing and reporting purposes. Can other Ticketing Agents outside my responsible group take or edit my tickets? Yes, all ticketing agent in the ServiceHub Tickets app have full control to any tickets. Responsible Groups are not private or read-only to other ticketing agents outside the Responsible Group. What do I with tickets containing sensitive information or security incidents? You can transfer the ticket to a Confidential Ticketing App by selecting \"Actions\" > \"Assign Workflow\". Please note that once you transfer the ticket to a Confidential Ticketing App, you will no longer have access to the ticket. What should I do with Spam tickets? If you encounter any spam tickets, you can set the ticket status to \"Rejected\". Other How do I find the Requestor's Computing ID on TeamDynamix? To find a user's computing ID, open the user's profile by click on their name (such as on a ticket or desktop view). You can see the user's computing ID under \"Organizational ID\". Does the Ticket views or Desktop auto-refresh? Unfortunately, no. At this", "will do the following:\n\nthe Requestor's Computing ID on TeamDynamix? To find a user's computing ID, open the user's profile by click on their name (such as on a ticket or desktop view). You can see the user's computing ID under \"Organizational ID\". Does the Ticket views or Desktop auto-refresh? Unfortunately, no. At this time, TeamDynamix does not have ticket views or desktops auto-refresh. The only widget that updates in real time is \"My Feed\" under My Work. We suggest looking into browser plug-ins to auto-refresh the page until TeamDynamix implements the feature. How is privacy and confidentiality handled by teamdynamix? TeamDynamix have been reviewed by our Privacy Office and the application have met their requirements. TeamDynamix stores all its data on a Canadian data centre. TeamDynamix also implements an advanced security method based on dynamic data and encoded session identifications, and hosts the Site in a secure server environment that uses a firewall and other advanced technology to prevent interference or access from outside intruders. For security and confidentiality for handling tickets, tickets with sensitive information will be in (or moved into) Confidential Ticketing Apps on ServiceHub to minimize exposure. These Confidential Ticketing Apps can only be accessible to select SFU technicians and administrators.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the steps to customize your Ticketing Desktop on the ServiceHub Ticketing App (TDNext).", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. From the Desktop View , select the Edit Desktop on the top. Step 2. From Available Content, drag and drop modules you wish to include to your Desktop View. Step 3. Once you configured your Desktop View to your liking, select Save . Step 4. Go back to Desktop View and refresh the page . You should see the changes.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Service Managers is on the right-hand side panel of this (article) page TDX Reports and Desktop HowTo KBs - A Curated Collections of Videos and KBs (see attachment) Report Handbook (see attachment) ITSM Reports Example s Desktop Examples Report, Desktop and My Work articles", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents", "DETAILS\n\nNote : At this time, Report Folders are not supported due to a bug with TeamDynamix. Please avoid creating Report Folders. Step 1. Under ITS Tickets , select Report > Report . Step 2. Select Ticket Report . Step 3 . Fill in a name and description Step 4 . If you wish, you may customize the columns you want to see for your report. In this example, I choose to keep the default columns. Step 5. Here, you can customize which tickets you wish to see using filter conditions Step 6. There are additional settings if you wish to configure further down. Once you're done, select Save and Run on the top. Step 7.", "EDIT YOUR REPORT\n\nIf you wish to edit a report you created, select Actions > Edit .", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to gain access to ServiceHub Ticketing App (TDNext).", "TICKETING ACCESS\n\nTo gain access to the ServiceHub Ticketing App, your SFU account should meet these requirements:", "1) HAVE AN ITS TICKETING APP ACCOUNT\n\nTo request for an account, submit a ticket using Request a Service on the Enterprise Service Management (ESM) . Note : Newly created TDNext account usually take up to 24 hours to be given access to the ServiceHub Ticketing App, as long as you are on a Responsible Group (see below).", "2) HAVE A TECHNICIAN ROLE\n\nYour SFU account should be part of at least one TDX Responsible Group Maillist. On SFU Maillist , you can try searching the maillists to which you belong and look for \"tdx-group-<your-responsible-group>\". If you are not on any TDX Responsible Group Maillist, ask your service owner/manager to add you to a Responsible Group . Note : Changes to Responsible Group usually take up to 24 hours to be in effect.", "HOW TO CHECK IF AN ACCOUNT HAS ACCESS\n\nIf you wish to check if you have access yourself , log into servicehub.sfu.ca/tickets , open the \"wafer\" and check if you there is an ITS Tickets button. If it appears, you have access. If you wish to check if a particular user has access , log into servicehub.sfu.ca/tickets and navigate to Groups on the ITS Ticketing App. Then, search for the user's name or Computing ID. If it appears, they have access to the ITS Ticketing App.", "ELEVATED ACCESS\n\nFor elevated roles, such as Service Owner, Service Manager, Knowledge Base Manager, and more, please submit a ticket using Request a Service on the Enterprise Service Management (ESM) . Related Articles (1) ServiceHub - Frequently Asked Questions Frequently asked questions about how to use ServiceHub.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines how to install and set up the SFU Print client application for staff and faculty printing to managed Ricoh printers. Managed Computers Unmanaged Computer Windows macOS Linux", "MANAGED COMPUTERS\n\nAll managed SFU computers will have SFU Print installed. To start using SFU Print, you will simply need to print to the SFU Print printer.", "UNMANAGED COMPUTERS\n\nFor unmanaged machines, devices not managed by IT Services or local/faculty IT, please review the documents below for instructions on how to set your machine up for SFU Print. If you have any problems with setting up SFU Print, please contact your local/faculty IT representative or the IT Service Desk. Windows", "NOTE:\n\nThis guide is for Windows 11 Enterprise , Professional and Education Edition . Home Edition and ARM-based CPUs are not supported . Step 1: Credentials Step 2: Install Papercut Client Step 3: Install Printer Driver Step 4: Install Printer Step 5: Test Print macOS", "Setup SFU Print on macOS Sonoma (14.x) and Sequoia (15.x):\n\nStep 1: Download and Install Driver Step 2: Install Papercut Client Step 3: Install SFU Print", "Setup SFU Print on macOS Monterey (12.x) or Ventura (13.x):\n\nStep 1: Install Driver Step 2: Set Up Printer Step 3: Configure Printer Options Step 4: Install Papercut Software Step 5: Authenticate and Print Linux Step 1: Install Papercut Software Step 2: Set up Printer", "OBTAINING YOUR KEY FOB/CARD\n\nAs part of the implementation project, existing permanent SFU Faculty and Staff will receive their first key fob/card for free until the end of August 2018 to use with SFU Print. Key fobs/cards/ will be distributed to your department when SFU Print devices are installed in your department. If you lose your key fob/card or need a new one, there will be a fee charged to replace it. If you do not have a key fob/card or have lost it, you can also log into the SFU Print devices using your SFU Computing ID or PaperCut ID number. Who can get a key fob? Staff, Faculty, TA's, or any individual that the department allows to print. Have an existing key fob/card? Existing HID key fobs or cards used for unlocking secure doors may also be used for SFU Print. Don't have a key fob/card? Contact your department administrator or fill out the Keys, Cards and Fobs Request Form from Safety and Risk Services.", "Step 1:\n\nTap your key fob/card on the card reader.", "Step 2:\n\nEnter your SFU Computing ID and password.", "Step 3:\n\nTap Associate . You will get a confirmation that your key fob/card is associated with your SFU Computing ID. If you get an error, re-tap your key fob/card and enter your SFU Computing ID and Password again. Once completed, your key fob/card will work at all SFU Print devices.", "Note:\n\nOnly one key fob/card can be associated with your SFU Computing ID. If you associate a new key fob/card, it will overwrite the existing one.", "DETAILS\n\nWhen printing from your computer, print jobs will now be automatically sent to centralized queue. You will no longer need to specify which device you would like to print to. The print jobs can be released at any SFU Print device by tapping your HID key fob/card on the card reader or logging in. The key fob/card will also be used to access photocopying or scanning options at the device. 1. Find your nearest SFU Print device and login via HID Key Fob/Card , SFU Computing ID , or PaperCut ID #. 2. Tap your HID key fob/card on the card reader to authenticate yourself. If this is your first time authenticating, you will need to login with your SFU Computing ID and password to link your key fob/card to your account. Don't have a key fob? Click here for more information on how to obtain and setup a key fob.", "Overview This article explains how to print in colour with SFU Print for Windows PC. Details", "Step 1:\n\nUnder the print menu, click Properties", "Step 2:\n\nUnder the section Color/ Black and White, select Color from the dropdown menu. Then click", "OK\n\nOverview This article explains how to print in colour with SFU Print for Windows PC.", "Overview This article explains how to print from a USB device such as a USB flash drive to SFU Print. Details", "Step 1:\n\nInsert your USB storage device into the USB port which can be found on the left side of the touchscreen console.", "Step 2:\n\nLog into your account by entering your computing ID and password or by using a key fob/card. Step 3 : Select Device functions Step 4 : Select Print/Scan (Memory Storage Device) Step 5 : Select Print from Storage Device Step 6 : Select the file(s) you want to print on your USB. Please note that o nly PDF's, JPG's, and TIF files can be printed . Word documents will not appear on the machine.", "Step 7:\n\nPress Start to begin printing. Press the eject icon on the bottom left of the screen once the printing is completed.", "VIDEO TUTORIAL\n\nOverview This article explains how to print from a USB device such as a USB flash drive to SFU Print.", "Overview This article explains how to print to a Shared Account using PIN codes. Details In order to print to a Shared Account using PIN Codes, you need to have the PaperCut Client installed. To install the client, find the instructions here.", "Step 1:\n\nGo to a document or any file and click \"Print.\" If you need to photocopy, go up the machine and select \"Copy.\" A) Printing B) Photocopying", "Step 2:\n\nWhen you click \"Print,\" the PaperCut client will give you a pop-up to select a PIN Code. When you select \"Copy,\" it will give you an option to enter a Code on the right of the screen. If your department has PIN Codes already set up, enter the PIN onto the computer or machine, depending if you are printing or photocopying to that shared account. A) Printing (PIN is entered on the computer) B) Photocopying (PIN is entered on machine)", "Step 3:\n\nPick up your print jobs/photocopies from a multi-function device. Overview This article explains how to print to a Shared Account using PIN codes.", "Overview This article explains how to use the photocopy function on SFU Print devices. Details Step 1 : Select Device functions Step 2 : Select Copy", "Step 3:\n\nUnder \"Black and White,\" you have the option to change to colored photocopies. Step 4 : Under \"Quantity,\" you can select how many copies you would like to make.", "Step 5:\n\nPress Start", "VIDEO TUTORIAL\n\nOverview This article explains how to use the photocopy function on SFU Print devices.", "Step 1:\n\nSelect \"Device functions.\"", "Step 2:\n\nSelect \"Scanner.\" Step 3 : To scan to your email, select \"To Email Address.\"", "Step 4:\n\n4. Select \"Enter Using Keyboard\" and type in the email address you want your scan to email to.", "Step 5:\n\nPress \"Start,\" once you have completed your set up of scanning.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1 : Select \"Device Functions.\"", "Step 2:\n\nSelect \"Print/Scan (Memory Storage Device).\"", "Step 3:\n\nSelect \"Scan to Storage Device.\"", "Step 4:\n\nSelect your memory device. Step 5 : Select location to store your file on your USB, and press \" Start\" to begin scanning. Step 6 : After you are done, press the eject icon on the bottom left of the screen to safely remove your device. Step 7 : Select your device to remove and press \"OK\".", "Overview This article explains how to replace the toner on an SFU Print device, and includes details on how to order more toner and recycle existing toner bottles. Low Toner Notifications Replacing the Toner Cartridge Recycle Used Toner Cartridge Details", "LOW TONER NOTIFICATIONS\n\nThe machine will tell you if you need to change the toner in the top right of the device screen. There are two kinds of notifications: Low toner message - check if spare cartridge is available Empty toner message - replace toner cartridge If you need to order toner, submit a request to the Service Desk and include the device's serial number. There is no additional cost for toner.", "WARNING\n\n: Never remove, shake, and re-insert a used cartridge.", "Step 1:\n\nCheck if a spare cartridge is available. If you need to order toner, submit a request to the Service Desk and include the device's serial number.", "Step 2:\n\nOpen the front panel and remove the empty toner cartridge.", "Step 3:\n\nShake the new cartridge lightly vertically, unscrew the cap, and insert it into the toner unit with the sticker on top.", "RECYCLE USED TONER CARTRIDGE\n\nAfter replacing the toner cartridge, a new toner cartridge should automatically be ordered on your behalf. To recycle used toner cartridges or bottles, please see Recycling Used Toner Cartridges . Overview This article explains how to replace the toner on an SFU Print device, and includes details on how to order more toner and recycle existing toner bottles. Low Toner Notifications Replacing the Toner Cartridge Recycle Used Toner Cartridge Low Toner Notifications Low Toner Notifications Replacing the Toner Cartridge Replacing the Toner Cartridge Recycle Used Toner Cartridge Recycle Used Toner Cartridge", "Overview This article explains how to refill the staples cartridge on an SFU Print device. Details", "Note:\n\nThe machine will tell you if you need to change staples in the top right of the device screen. Additional staples can be ordered through the Document Solutions portal . Step 1 : Open the finisher door and remove the staple cartridge/casing.", "Step 2:\n\nFollowing the instructions inside the finisher door, remove the cartridge from the casing and insert a new one. Each refill holds 5000 staples. Overview This article explains how to refill the staples cartridge on an SFU Print device.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1 : Please load the transparencies in the bypass tray. If they have a paper attached, please check the sticker to see if you load it face up or down. If paper backed, load glued edge first.", "Step 2:\n\nTo Copy onto Transparencies Click copy Click Select Tray Select the Bypass Tray Select Paper Size Select Paper Type (slide down to find transparencies OHP)", "Step 3:\n\nTo Print onto Transparencies Go to Printer Properties Select Paper Tray - Bypass If you want to save as a One Click Preset, then click \"Register Current Settings\" and then name it.", "SFU Print for Administrators", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines printing and billing cost for using SFU Print in your office area.", "BILLING SUPPORT\n\nDepartments will be charged for the usage on your device.", "SEE WHO IS PRINTING TO YOUR DEVICE\n\nYou can request monthly reports from Papercut which will show a breakdown of user usage for each device. Please contact IT Service Desk to get regular reporting set up.", "TRACKING PRINTING\n\nShared accounts can be created in PaperCut to track printing and copying charges separately. Accounts can be shared among multiple users and groups. The SFU Print team can work with you to determine how your shared accounts can be set up to work with your department. For more information on shared accounts and how to set them up, please visit the Shared Accounts page . If you are concerned about a different user printing or copying significant amounts on your department\u2019s device please contact Document Solutions at 778-782-4160 or docsol@sfu.ca with your request and they can help facilitate this request.", "PRINTING COSTS\n\nCost per copy rates (including tax) are established April 1 st for each fiscal year. These costs include the Ricoh MFD, their associated accessories (finishers, paper trays, hole punch, card readers), and support costs associated with the SFU Print service.", "Black and White:\n\n$0.0448 per impression", "Colour:\n\n$0.1078 per impression", "SFU Print for Administrators", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article details the provisioning processes for print equipment.", "ORDERING TONER\n\nAll devices will arrive with an extra toner cartridge. Once the device indicates it needs a toner change, please use the extra toner. When the toner is replaced, the device will automatically place a call for an additional toner to be delivered directly to the unit. Toner will be labelled by device model and shipped via Purolator.", "ORDERING STAPLES\n\nStaples can be ordered through Document Solutions . Please contact Document Solutions directly if you have any questions about the process.", "ORDERING ACCESSORIES\n\nPlease submit a service request to the IT Service Desk to order accessories (paper tray lock, keyboard, etc.) for your SFU Print device.", "TONER RECYCLING\n\nIf you have empty toner cartridges/bottles, there are several ways for you to recycle them. Please visit Recycling Used Toner Cartridges for details.", "MOVING AND ORDERING NEW SFU PRINT DEVICES\n\nIf you would like to move or order a new SFU Print device, you must fill out the appropriate form between the MFD Move Request form and the MFD Order Form , after this submit the appropriate form to IT Service Desk . Please note that there will be a $250 charge for any device moves requiring the logistics company (i.e. moving to a different building). Related Articles (1) Replace Printer Toner Learn how to replace the printing toner for SFU Print devices.", "SFU Print for Administrators", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article is for administrators who need to set up printing for non-SFU staff/faculty or for those in departments. This also provides information on the different billing options available.", "ADDING SFU AND NON-SFU STAFF/FACULTY VIA MAIL LIST\n\nAll users on the \"sfu-faculty-staff\" and \"sfu-sessional-sponsored\" maillists have access to SFU Print devices. If there are users who require access but are not on this maillist (ie. grad students, lightweight accounts, etc.), access can be granted through a departmental print access maillist.", "Steps to granting SFU Print access:\n\nCreate a departmental maillist at maillist.sfu.ca for SFU Print access only (members should not receive or send emails via this list). The name of the maillist must be in the following format: <abbreviated campus name>-mps-<abbreviated department name>-access For example: \"bby-mps-geog-access\" Once the mailist is active, email papercut-senior-admins@sfu.ca the name of the maillist and the PaperCut administrators will synchronize it with the Active Directory group called \"MPS Special Accounts.\" Add users to the newly created maillist to grant them access to SFU Print.", "SFU Print for Administrators", "OVERVIEW\n\nShared accounts can be created in PaperCut to track printing and copying charges separately. Shared accounts can be shared among multiple users and groups. The SFU Print team can work with you to determine how your shared accounts can be set up to work with your department. Examples of how shared accounts can be used: Tracking printing/copying costs by course (BISC 101, BISC 102, etc) Tracking printing/copying costs by research grants", "This article has additional information on:\n\nTwo types of shared accounts Setting up shared accounts in pin codes Setting up shared accounts in account lists Printing and Photocopying with shared accounts overview Account Management", "PIN Codes:\n\nUsers can charge to shared accounts by entering a PIN code when they print or copy. This works similarly to the functionality on the old Konica-Minoltas.", "Account List:\n\nWhen printing or copying, users can select from a list of shared accounts that they have been granted access to. Access to shared accounts will be granted through maillists. There is no limit to the number of accounts that an individual can have access to. The table below gives an overview of the pros and cons of each option: Pros Cons PIN Codes Easier to give access to a shared account - only need to share the PIN PIN codes can easily updated in a batch and can easily remove access on a semesterly basis.. More difficult to control who is charging to the account. Users have to remember their PIN code for every shared account. Account List Users do not need to remember a PIN. They can simply select the account they see on their screen More control over who has access to charge to the account. More administration required - need to regularly update the permissions if users are regularly changing.", "SETTING UP PIN CODES\n\nPlease note that users will need the PaperCut client installed for this option to work. Find out how to set up the PaperCut client here. If your PC/Mac is a managed device, please contact your IT Administrator to help you install it.", "Step 1:\n\nCreate an Excel spreadsheet with the following headings in columns A-D. Fill out the information under each column. For further clarification, refer to the PIN Code Template Sample", "or visit the website here:\n\nhttp://i.sfu.ca/HkolfB Column A: Department Name (Ex. BEEDIE) Column B: Sub Account Name (Ex. Course #) Column C: Enabled (Y/N) Column D: PIN (Ex. 12345)", "Step 2:\n\nEmail the spreadsheet to papercut-senior-admins@sfu.ca and IT Services will batch import accounts into PaperCut. PIN Codes will be synced to PaperCut. This will take approximately one day to sync.", "Step 3:\n\nCreate a maillist at maillist.sfu.ca", "with the following conventions:\n\nabbreviated campus name-mps-abbreviated department name-pins For example: \"bby-mps-geog-pins\"", "Step 4:\n\nAdd all users who will need to use PINs into this maillist. We will use this maillist to update the specified user profiles so that they are given the option to enter a PIN when printing/copying. When activated, users will be prompted to enter a PIN upon printing or copying.", "Step 1:\n\nCreate a spreadsheet with three columns Column A: Department Name (Should be the same for all) Column B: Account Name (This is what the user selects on the screen) Column C: Name of Maillist controlling access to the shared account", "Step 2:\n\nCreate the maillists entered above at maillist.sfu.ca with the naming conventions below. Add users who will need access to the shared accounts into the corresponding maillist. abbreviated campus name-mps-abbreviated department name-account i.e. \"bby-mps-geog-research101\"", "Step 3:\n\nCreate a maillist with the naming conventions below and nest all the maillists above into this maillist. This maillist will be used to control which users get prompted to select an account list. Otherwise, users will continue to automatically charge to their department. abbreviated campus name-mps-abbreviated department name-pins i.e. \"bby-mps-geog-pins\"", "Step 4:\n\nEmail papercut-senior-admins@sfu.ca with the spreadsheet of shared accounts and maillists.", "Step 5:\n\nThe maillist will then be synced to Active Directory and PaperCut. This will take approximately one day.", "Step 6:\n\nYour Shared Account List will populate in PaperCut. You will then be able to see and select your newly created Shared Account.", "USING ACCOUNT LISTS\n\nA) Printing - the list is accessed on the computer with the PaperCut client installed. B) Photocopying - the list is accessed on the Ricoh multi-function device.", "USING PIN CODES\n\nA) Printing - the PIN is entered on the computer with the PaperCut client installed. B) Photocopying - the PIN Code is entered on the Ricoh multi-function device.", "ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT\n\nWhen setting up your billing options, email papercut-senior-admins@sfu.ca with the person in charge of your department for administering printing and indicate their SFU username. This must be completed in order to get access to the link below.", "To manage PIN Codes and Shared Accounts, click here:\n\nhttps://papercut-staff.mps.sfu.ca:9192/admin", "This will give you access to administrative privileges such as:\n\nPaperCut Reporting User Management", "SFU Print for Administrators", "OVERVIEW\n\nBelow is a list of frequently asked questions about the SFU Print billing. Frequently Asked Questions about SFU Print Billing", "HOW WILL BILLING BE CHANGED?\n\nThe billing itself will remain unchanged and continue to be billed-by-device. Your department will continue to be charged for the usage on your device.", "CAN I SEE WHO IS PRINTING TO MY DEVICE?\n\nYes! You can request monthly reports from PaperCut which will show a breakdown of user usage for each device. Please contact IT Service Desk to get regular reporting set up.", "WHAT HAPPENED TO BILLING-BY-USER?\n\nAfter evaluating our existing infrastructure and meeting departments to understand their business processes, we've identified that implementing a billing-by-user model right now would increase the manual work required by departments and would not add value for the University. There are concurrect projects that are in progress that will improve the University's infrastructure and business processes which will make a new billing model more viable in the future. CHARGES IN MY DEPARTMENT USED TO BE TRACKED SEPARATELY BY THEIR FUNCTION (COURSES, RESEARCH GRANTS, ETC). HOW DO I DO THIS IN SFU PRINT? Shared accounts can be created in PaperCut to track printing and copying charges separately. Shared accounts can be shared among multiple users and groups. The SFU Print team can work with you to determine how your shared accounts can be set up to work with your department. For more information on shared accounts and how to set them up, please visit the Shared Accounts page.", "WHAT IF A USER FROM A DIFFERENT DEPARTMENT IS PRINTING OR COPYING SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS ON MY DEPARTMENT'S DEVICE?\n\nPlease contact Document Solutions at 778-782-4160 or docsol@sfu.ca with your request and they can help facilitate this request.", "Overview Learn how SFU staff and faculty can upload and share videos using My Mediasite. Sign into My Mediasite (stream.sfu.ca) Upload or record a presentation from your computer Decide who can access your video Share your video Embed in Canvas Quick Link or QR Code Direct Invite by Email Embed Code FAQ's Details 1. Sign into My Mediasite and activate your account When you first sign into My Mediasite (stream.sfu.ca), you will be prompted to validate your account by email and confirm additional details: Sign into stream.sfu.ca using your SFU computing ID and password. Enter your display name, confirm your SFU email (should be autofilled), then select Continue . Check your SFU inbox for an email with the subject line \"Mediasite account activation request\". Click the provided link to complete the Mediasite account activation process. 2. Use the \"Add Media\" button to upload or record a presentation from your computer Once you've signed into My Mediasite, you can upload or record a presentation: Select Add Presentation You can upload a video from your computer or record a new one using the Mediasite Desktop Recorder App . Once a file or recording is finished uploading, the video will need to process before it is ready for your audience. Depending on the size of your video and the number of users uploading to the system, this can take up to 24 hours. 1. Recommended VIDEO settings for Faster upload Recommended settings for Video Files", "Resolution:\n\nA maximum resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels", "Frame Rate:\n\n24 frames per second (if you are only recording your slides, set this to 15 fps)", "Duration:\n\nWe recommend keeping individual videos to less than 3 hours", "File Size:\n\nA one-hour video should not be larger than 2 GB. (Please compress the video if it is unusually large)", "ADVANCED USERS\n\nFor faster processing, make sure your video contains the following properties: A Keyframe Interval of less than 6 seconds An Aspect Ratio that uses Square (1:1) pixels A bitrate of 1.5 Mbps or less Audio tracks with a 44.1 Khz sample rate Required settings for Sound Files", "Bitrate:\n\n128 kbps or less", "Sample rate:\n\n44.1 khz (48 Khz will also work) 2. Why is my video taking a long time to become available? Once your file is finished uploading to SFU's servers, it usually needs to be re-processed into a format that is optimised for on-demand streaming. Processing times average well under an hour, but some things can affect this processing time. SFU is continually looking to improve the performance of the Mediasite platform. Below are some things to watch out for when uploading videos. An incorrect file was uploaded (e.g. uploading a PowerPoint . pptx file instead of a video file) Uploading very large, uncompressed video files. If you are using a video editor, try exporting with a lower bitrate (we recommend 1.5 Mbps) Sometimes, the wait is happening before the processing stage. If the status of the video lists \"Queued for Processing\", then your video has not yet begun processing. This wait time can go above the usual 10-20 minutes when too many people are uploading at the same time. If your video spends too much time waiting in the queue, try uploading your content at a different time of day. When making videos using Zoom or PowerPoint it is important to acquire a video file. If a non-video file is uploaded to Mediasite you will not receive an error. Mediasite will keep trying to convert the file but will fail after a long time. Zoom Recordings When using the Zoom local recording feature, Zoom will create a special temporary file. This file will end with \" .zoom \". After a recording finishes, please allow Zoom some time to process this file and produce a file that ends with \". mp4 \" PowerPoint Recordings Microsoft PowerPoint will allow you to make a recording of your presentation. PowerPoint files end with \" .", "Sample rate:\n\nfile will end with \" .zoom \". After a recording finishes, please allow Zoom some time to process this file and produce a file that ends with \". mp4 \" PowerPoint Recordings Microsoft PowerPoint will allow you to make a recording of your presentation. PowerPoint files end with \" . pptx \". When your presentation recording is complete you must export the video to produce a usable video file. This file should end with \". mp4 \". For best results, see \"1. Recommend video settings for faster upload\" above. 3. How many videos can i upload? In response to the rapid transition to remote teaching, SFU has removed any storage quotas for videos uploaded to Mediasite until further notice. 4. What kind of files can I upload? Mediasite accepts a wide variety of video and audio formats. Popular formats that are supported are listed below. If you are hoping to upload a different file format, please send an email to its-help@sfu.ca", "Video:\n\nmp4, avi, mov, flv, m4v, mkv, wmv", "Audio:\n\nmp3, wav, vob, Please note that very large files and videos with a very long duration may have difficulty being processed by the server. Processing times for Media Uploads can vary based on capacity and can take several hours to complete processing. 4K Video is not currently supported. 5. How long can i keep my videos? Any content you upload yourself will remain available for as long as your SFU account remains active. Class recordings can be downloaded to your own computer or transferred to your My Mediasite account for long-term storage. 3. Decide who can access your video Once your video has completed processing, you can make it viewable to your audience by sliding the \"WHO CAN VIEW?\" toggle switch to the appropriate setting. For most recordings, we recommend setting it to the My Organization", "permission level:\n\nEveryone This will make the video open to the public. Anyone with the link can watch the video without logging in. My Organization Any SFU user with an active Computing Account Only Shared Users Users you have added manually using the \"Share\" button Only Me This will make the video private. Only the owner of the video can watch the content. If you have sensitive material and only want to share it to a list of allowed users, please submit a ticket so IT Services can advise accordingly. 1. Why does my video become private after the upload is finished processing? This is the default behaviour and it is a safety feature. If you upload a video, this behaviour will encourage you to take a moment and verify that it is indeed the correct video before it becomes watchable by your audience. If you would like the videos you upload to automatically publish without a chance to verify the contents, please follow these instructions: Click on the face icon to the right of \"Moderation\" and navigate to the \" My Settings \" page Navigate to the \" Publishing \" options Set the option \"Set visibility of MyMediasite uploads as viewable\" so that it is \"TRUE\". Save To quickly get to this configuration page, please visit this link: https://stream.sfu.ca/media/mymediasite/settings/publish-settings 4. Share your video Embed videos in Canvas There are a few ways to share your videos. IT Services recommends using Canvas to share your content . You can use the \"embed video\" option for individual videos. For other ways to share, select Share Presentation . Quick Link or QR Code Copy the quick link or QR code and share it as you'd like ex. through email or Canvas. Direct Invite by Email Select the Invite by Email tab Enter the email", "permission level:\n\nvideo\" option for individual videos. For other ways to share, select Share Presentation . Quick Link or QR Code Copy the quick link or QR code and share it as you'd like ex. through email or Canvas. Direct Invite by Email Select the Invite by Email tab Enter the email addresses you'd like to share a video link. Use a semicolon ; to separate each address. Write a personal message, if desired. Select Send Invite . Mediasite will warn you if permissions are not set to \"everyone\". Depending on your audience, you may need to adjust your video permissions (see Step 3: Decide who can access your video) before sending the invitation. Embed Code If you're familiar with HTML code, you can use the embed code to embed the video within SFU web pages or Canvas Course pages. 1. How do I share multiple videos at once? The My Mediasite application allows you to share multiple videos with your audience using \"Channels\". These playlists can be shared with students or other users, or they can be embedded inside of a Canvas course. To create a channel, please look at our how-to guide on sharing videos using a playlist/channel . 5. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) 1. What is mediasite, and How is it different from \"My Mediasite\"? Mediasite is the platform used by SFU to automate scheduled recordings in supported rooms. Recordings are captured based on your SFU Course Outline information and can be distributed through Canvas. A browser-based video editor is also available to make your own adjustments to your recordings. My Mediasite is a Content Management System for streaming video available to SFU Faculty & Staff. It allows users to make changes to lecture recordings, upload new videos, control their visibility and create playlists of other videos from your", "permission level:\n\nis also available to make your own adjustments to your recordings. My Mediasite is a Content Management System for streaming video available to SFU Faculty & Staff. It allows users to make changes to lecture recordings, upload new videos, control their visibility and create playlists of other videos from your library that you can share with other SFU users. 2. Can users download my videos? Mediasite streams your video in a way that cannot easily be saved through normal use. If you would like your audience to be able to easily download a copy of your video or audio presentation, please inquire with IT Services by submitting a ticket . 3. Can my students submit assignments this way? At this time, only faculty and staff may request recordings or upload content. Allowing students to submit assignments through Mediasite is currently outside of the scope of the Lecture Capture service. Students and faculty can share files with one another using SFU Canvas, OneDrive, SFU Vault, etc. 4. How can i add closed-captions to my videos? Mediasite allows you to upload closed-captioning files for your videos. Simply follow the steps below to add your captioning file. Note: Mediasite cannot automatically create captions for you. You must upload a caption file or create your own captions using Mediasite's caption editor.", "Add a caption file to your video:\n\nNavigate to your presentation. Click Edit and go to the Delivery tab. If you have not already enabled captioning, select the Captioning check box. Select the Manually Upload an Audio Caption File radio button and click Select a file to locate and select your closed caption file. Click Upload. Once the file is uploaded, launch the presentation in Mediasite Player and verify your captions appear as expected. 5. How can I let my coworker edit one of my presentations or channels? If you need to provide editing privileges to a collaborator, you can make use of the green \"Edit Security\" button on your Presentation or Channel. Add the user to the list in this area, then make sure the security setting for \"Write\" has a check under \"Allow\" when clicking on their name in the list.", "More information is available from the people who created Mediasite:\n\nhttps://docs.mediasite.com/76/mymediasite/#!Documents/assigncustompermissionsdesktoponly1.htm If you still have any questions regarding My Mediasite, submit a ticket to IT Services for further assistance. Overview Learn how SFU staff and faculty can upload and share videos using My Mediasite. Sign into My Mediasite (stream.sfu.ca) Upload or record a presentation from your computer Decide who can access your video Share your video Embed in Canvas Quick Link or QR Code Direct Invite by Email Embed Code FAQ's Sign into My Mediasite (stream.sfu.ca) Sign into My Mediasite (stream.sfu.ca) Upload or record a presentation from your computer Upload or record a presentation from your computer Decide who can access your video Decide who can access your video Share your video Embed in Canvas Quick Link or QR Code Direct Invite by Email Embed Code Share your video Embed in Canvas Quick Link or QR Code Direct Invite by Email Embed Code Embed in Canvas Quick Link or QR Code Direct Invite by Email Embed Code FAQ's FAQ's", "Teaching and Learning Lecture Capture Video Hosting Overview This article explains how to use the Mediasite Desktop Recorder to record your lectures. Mediasite Desktop Recorder allows you to capture and record your computer's desktop, webcam and microphone. Recordings that are in-progress can be paused so that you can deliver your presentation at your own pace. When recordings are finished, they can be published to your MyMediasite account where it can be shared with your audience. Mediasite also features a web-based editor so that you may trim the start and end of your recording or make simple edits.", "Note:\n\nIT Services has been improving the login security for the Mediasite platform. Please note that this will have an effect on the use of Mediasite Desktop Recorder. Mediasite Desktop Recorder sessions must be started from stream.sfu.ca, as per the instructions below. Recording durations cannot exceed 2 hours.", "DOWNLOADING AND INSTALLING MEDIASITE DESKTOP RECORDER (MDR)\n\nIf this is your first time using MDR, you will need to install the desktop software to perform your recordings: Log into the MyMediasite portal Click Add Presentation Click the More Information button under \"Capturing video requires an app.\" Click on the download button that corresponds with your operating system. Installers are only available for Windows and Mac operating systems. Note: For macOS Catalina users, the MDR download in My Mediasite may not work correctly on your system. Instead, please install \"Mediasite Capture\" from the Mac App Store or by visiting Mediasite Capture - App Store in browser.", "RECORDING A PRESENTATION ON YOUR COMPUTER\n\nOnce the MDR software is registered with your My Mediasite account, you will be able to start using MyMediasite to begin new recording sessions. It is also possible to begin a new Presentation from MDR, but we recommend starting in MyMediasite. Step 1: Click Add Media to begin setting up your recording session. Select the option \" I want to record my desktop now \" to begin using MDR for a recording session. This will prompt you for more details before attempting to launch the MDR software on your computer. Step 2: Enter your Presentation details and click \"Create and Launch\" Mediasite will require you to give the Presentation a title before you can begin. The description is optional but recommended. Once you click \"Create and Launch\", the web browser will download a Mediasite launcher and ask you to open the file in the MDR software. If this is your first time using MDR, please refer to the instructions for \" Using MDR for the first time \" further up on this page. Step 3: Configure your recording preferences DR will allow you to capture any combination of your webcam, microphone and anything appearing on your desktop. Pick a combination from the available options. Once you have chosen the type of recording you would like to make, you can either select \"Record\" or you can click on \"Next\" to double-check or change options for your microphone and camera. We recommend using the \"Next\" option and always verifying that the correct devices have been selected. Step 4: Begin recording your Presentation While you are recording, MDR provides a Preview window. This will show your camera if you are using one, however if it is on-screen for the recording, a message will replace the image to let you know that it might", "RECORDING A PRESENTATION ON YOUR COMPUTER\n\ndevices have been selected. Step 4: Begin recording your Presentation While you are recording, MDR provides a Preview window. This will show your camera if you are using one, however if it is on-screen for the recording, a message will replace the image to let you know that it might be recorded accidentally. If you need to take a break or would like to perform in short bursts, MDR allows you to pause and resume your recording. This can be done from the MDR Preview window, or by clicking an icon in the System Tray for your computer. If you discard your recording, MDR will erase whatever has been recorded and bring you back to Step 3 so that you may try again. Step 5: Finish your recording After you have completed your recording, the video will be automatically uploaded to your My Mediasite account. If you would like to choose when your video is uploaded to the system, you can change the default behaviour in the Settings area for the MDR software. Later, if you decide you would like to re-record your Presentation you can begin a new recording session from the same Presentation in My Mediasite.", "Step 6:\n\nWhen you're ready, make the video viewable for your audiencNo Note: By default, when a video is uploaded to My Mediasite, the \"WHO CAN VIEW?\" toggle for the video in My Mediasite will always be reset to \" Only Me \". Before your audience can watch the video, you must change the \"WHO CAN VIEW?\" toggle to another setting. This can only be changed after your video has finished processing. Related Services / Offerings (1) Classroom Technology - Request Lecture Recording Record course presentations hosted in SFU campus lecture theaters or class rooms.", "Teaching and Learning Lecture Capture Video Hosting", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to share your lecture recording videos in Canvas, SFU's Learning Management System. You can choose to share a playlist (channel) of all your recordings, or share each video individually. For audio only recordings, you can direct your students to visit SFU's Audio Recordings Archive . Embed a playlist or video in Canvas Lecture Videos Recorded by IT Services If IT Services is recording your lectures, you can embed a playlist (also known as a channel) which includes past and future course recordings: Create a new page in your course and title it \"Lecture Recordings\" or similar. Select the Mediasite plug-in (four blue circles) from the page\u2019s tool bar. If you don't see the icon, click the three dots for more tools or enlarge your browser window. Select Authorize if prompted by Mediasite to access your Canvas account. Select Filter and filter by Type: Channel and Owner: Shared With Me . Then select Apply . Find your course and select Embed. You can also use the search bar to narrow your results ex.", "If you prefer to share videos individually:\n\nSelect Filter and filter by Type: Presentation and Owner: Shared With Me . Then select Apply . Find your course. You can use the search bar to narrow your results ex.", "1251 MATH 100 D100\n\nWe recommend choosing Embed Video which will insert a video player to watch on the same page. You can also choose Link Video to insert a link to watch the video in another page or window. Self-Recorded Videos If you\u2019re uploading videos to MyMediasite by yourself, see Share Videos Using a Playlist or Channel for instructions to create and share a channel. Frequently Asked Questions 1. I'm not using Canvas to teach and IT SErvices is recording on my behalf. How do I share my recordings with my students? When our AV Team schedules your lecture recording, you will receive a confirmation email that contains a channel link that you can share with your students. It will be in the form of: https://stream.sfu.ca/Media/Channel/<semester code>-<subject>-<number>-<section> ex. https://stream.sfu.ca/Media/Channel/1251-bus-207-d100 Your semesterly recordings will automatically sync with your SFU group. If your students can't access to the recording, please contact IT Services for assistance. Related Services / Offerings (2) Canvas Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system. Classroom Technology - Request Lecture Recording Record course presentations hosted in SFU campus lecture theaters or class rooms.", "Teaching and Learning Lecture Capture Video Hosting", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to use add a channel to share your self-recorded videos. For instructors who have IT Services recording on their behalf, see Sharing your lecture recordings in Canvas . The My Mediasite application allows you to share multiple videos with your audience using \"Channels\". These playlists can be shared with students or other users, or they can be embedded inside of a Canvas course.", "Channels also enable the following optional features:\n\nComments from your audience Channel customizations", "Topics covered in this article:\n\nAdd a Channel Mark your channel as a favourite Add videos to your channel Adjust your video access settings Share your channel Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) Allow users to download your videos 1. Add a Channel Sign into your My Mediasite account . Select Browse Channels . Select Add Channel and give your channel a name. Other fields are optional and can be left as-is. Select Create Channel to save your changes. Mark your channel as a favourite Once you've added a channel, we recommend you mark it as a favourite for easy access: Select Browse Channels . Click the star icon to mark the channel as a favourite. The channel will now remain on your home page for quick access. 2. Add videos to your channel These instructions apply to videos that have been already uploaded to Mediasite. To upload your videos for the first time, see Upload and share your videos using MyMediasite . Open the details page of your recording in Mediasite and select Move To. Select Place this Presentation in a Channel . Use Keep permissions from source presentation which is set by default. Search for and select your new channel, then select Move Presentation . 3. Adjust your video access settings In the previous step, we opted to to use the permissions from the source presentation. To check or edit your permissions, Open the details page of your recording Move the", "WHO CAN VIEW\n\nslider to the desired setting For most recordings, we recommend setting it to the My Organization permission level. Everyone This will make the video open to the public. Anyone with the link can watch the video without logging in. My Organization Any SFU user with an active Computing Account Only Shared Users Users you have added manually using the \"Share\" button Only Me This will make the video private. Only the owner of the video can watch the content. If you have sensitive material and only want to share it to a list of allowed users, please submit a ticket so IT Services can advise accordingly. 4. Share your channel We recommend using Canvas to share your channel with students. If you're not teaching with Canvas or prefer to share the channel by using a link, you can: Open your channel settings and select Share. Copy the quick link or QR code and share it as you'd like. 5. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ's) 1. How can i let my coworker edit one of my presentations or channels? If you need to provide editing privileges to a collaborator, you can make use of the green \"Edit Security\" button on your Presentation or Channel. Add the user to the list in this area, then make sure the security setting for \"Write\" has a check under \"Allow\" when clicking on their name in the list.", "More information is available from the people who created Mediasite:\n\nhttps://docs.mediasite.com/76/mymediasite/#!Documents/assigncustompermissionsdesktoponly1.ht 2. Can users download my videos? Mediasite streams your video in a way that cannot easily be saved through normal use. If you would like your audience to be able to easily download a copy of your video or audio presentation, please inquire with IT Services by submitting a ticket. If you still have any questions regarding My Mediasite, submit a ticket to IT Services for further assistance. Related Services / Offerings (1) Classroom Technology - Request Lecture Recording Record course presentations hosted in SFU campus lecture theaters or class rooms.", "Teaching and Learning Lecture Capture Video Hosting Overview This article explains how to allow your audience to download a copy of your video or audio presentation. Allowing students to download your presentation", "Note:\n\nTo allow users who do not have access to MyMediasite (such as students) to download your presentations, you will need to share the corresponding MyMediasite channel that contains them.", "Step 1:\n\nLog in to the MyMediasite portal and open your channel.", "Step 2:\n\nClick Edit to open the channel's settings page.", "Step 3:\n\ncheck the Allow Presentation Download option.", "Step 4:\n\nSave the changes.", "Step 5:\n\nShare your channel by sharing the link or embedding it into Canvas. When students view your channel, they can click on download icon in the thumbnail of the presentation to download it. Allowing staff/faculty to download your presentation These instructions are intended for users who have access to MyMediasite (staff, faculty):", "Step 1:\n\nLog in to the MyMediasite portal and open your presentation.", "Step 2:\n\nClick Edit Details and switch over to the Delivery tab.", "Check-off the boxes for your desired format:\n\nPodcast will produce an audio file Vodcast will produce a video file. We recommend choosing Course Export 720p for most use cases.", "Step 4:\n\nSave the changes to your presentation and allow up to 24 hours for the file to be generated", "Step 5:\n\nShare the link to your presentation. Users can click Download to Computer to initiate the download. Related Services / Offerings (1) Classroom Technology - Request Lecture Recording Record course presentations hosted in SFU campus lecture theaters or class rooms.", "Teaching and Learning Lecture Capture Video Hosting Frequently Asked Questions about Video Hosting (Mediasite) Table of Contents General Information Uploading and Managing Content Viewing and Sharing Content Assignment and Submissions Technical Issues and Troubleshooting Embedding and Linking Content Collaboration and Editing Privacy and Permissions 1. General Information 1. What is mediasite? Mediasite is the platform used by SFU to automate scheduled recordings in supported rooms. Recordings are captured based on your SFU Course Outline information and can be distributed through Canvas. A browser-based video editor is also available to make your own adjustments to your recordings. 2. How is my mediasite different from mediasite? My Mediasite is a Content Management System for streaming video available to SFU Faculty & Staff. It allows users to make changes to lecture recordings, upload new videos, control their visibility and create playlists of other videos from your library that you can share with other SFU users. My Mediasite can be accessed at http://stream.sfu.ca or through Canvas by enabling the My Mediasite app for your course. 2. Uploading and Managing Content 3. What kind of files can I upload? Mediasite accepts a wide variety of video and audio formats. Popular formats that are supported are listed below. If you are hoping to upload a different file format, please send an email to its-help@sfu.ca", "Video:\n\nmp4, avi, mov, flv, m4v, mkv, wmv", "Audio:\n\nmp3, wav, vob, Please note that very large files and videos with a very long duration may have difficulty being processed by the server. Processing times for Media Uploads can vary based on capacity and can take several hours to complete processing. 4K Video is not currently supported. Recommended settings for Video Files", "Resolution:\n\nA maximum resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels", "Frame Rate:\n\n24 frames per second (if you are only recording your slides, set this to 15 fps)", "Duration:\n\nWe recommend keeping individual videos to less than 3 hours", "File Size:\n\nA one-hour video should not be larger than 2 GB. (Please compress the video if it is unusually large)", "ADVANCED USERS\n\nFor faster processing, make sure your video contains the following properties: A Keyframe Interval of less than 6 seconds An Aspect Ratio that uses Square (1:1) pixels A bitrate of 1.5 Mbps or less Audio tracks with a 44.1 Khz sample rate Required settings for Sound Files", "Bitrate:\n\n128 kbps or less", "Sample rate:\n\n44.1 khz (48 Khz will also work) 4. How much can I upload? In response to the rapid transition to remote teaching, SFU has removed any storage quotas for videos uploaded to Mediasite until further notice. 5. How long can I keep videos? ITS will delete class recordings that are more than one year old, but any content you upload yourself will remain available for as long as your SFU account remains active. Class recordings and uploads can be downloaded to your own computer or transferred to your My Mediasite account for long-term storage. 3. Viewing and Sharing Content 6. Who can see my videos? Visibility for your uploaded videos can be managed through My Mediasite. Use the \"Who can view?\" toggle to set the type of security. Limiting access to particular users or groups can be done using the \"Share Presentation\" or \"Edit Security\" buttons and adding your user or group as a \"Viewer\". By setting the toggle to \"Only Me\", visibility can be disabled temporarily in case you need to make adjustments to a video before distributing to your students. Videos will still appear wherever they are listed, but will not be allow playback until visibility is re-enabled. 7. Why is my video taking a long time to become available? Once your file is finished uploading to SFU's servers, it usually needs to be re-processed into a format that is optimised for on-demand streaming. Processing times average well under an hour, but some things can affect this processing time. SFU is continually looking to improve the performance of the Mediasite platform. Below are some things to watch out for when uploading videos. An incorrect file was uploaded (e.g. uploading a PowerPoint . pptx file instead of a video file) Uploading very large, uncompressed video files. If you are", "Sample rate:\n\ntime. SFU is continually looking to improve the performance of the Mediasite platform. Below are some things to watch out for when uploading videos. An incorrect file was uploaded (e.g. uploading a PowerPoint . pptx file instead of a video file) Uploading very large, uncompressed video files. If you are using a video editor, try exporting with a lower bitrate (we recommend 1.5 Mbps) Sometimes, the wait is happening before the processing stage. If the status of the video lists \"Queued for Processing\", then your video has not yet begun processing. This wait time can go above the usual 10-20 minutes when too many people are uploading at the same time. If your video spends too much time waiting in the queue, try uploading your content at a different time of day. Ensuring the following properties for your video can help decrease processing times. Recommended settings for Video Files", "Resolution:\n\n1920 x 1080 pixels (1280 x 720 is also recommended)", "Frame Rate:\n\n24 frames per second (if you are only recording your slides, set this to 15 fps)", "Duration:\n\nWe recommend keeping individual videos to less than 3 hours", "File Size:\n\nA one-hour video should not be larger than 2 GB. (Please compress the video if it is unusually large)", "ADVANCED USERS\n\nFor faster processing, make sure your video contains the following properties: A Keyframe Interval of less than 6 seconds An Aspect Ratio that uses Square (1:1) pixels A bitrate of 1.5 Mbps or less Audio tracks with a 44.1 Khz sample rate Required settings for Sound Files", "Bitrate:\n\n128 kbps or less", "Sample rate:\n\n44.1 khz (48 Khz will also work) 4. Assignments and Submissions 8. Can my students submit assignments this way? At this time, only faculty and staff may request recordings or upload content. Allowing students to submit assignments through Mediasite is currently outside of the scope of the Lecture Capture service. Students and faculty can share files with one another using SFU Canvas . 5. Technical Issues and Troubleshooting", "9. WHY DOES MY VIDEO BECOME \"PRIVATE\" AFTER THE UPLOAD IS FINISHED PROCESSING?\n\nThis is the default behaviour and it is a safety feature. If you upload a video, this behaviour will encourage you to take a moment and verify that it is indeed the correct video before it becomes watchable by your audience. If you would like the videos you upload to automatically publish without a chance to verify the contents, please follow these instructions: Click on the face icon to the right of \"Moderation\" and navigate to the \" My Settings \" page Navigate to the \" Publishing \" options Set the option \"Set visibility of MyMediasite uploads as viewable\" so that it is \"TRUE\". Save To quickly get to this configuration page, please visit this link: https://stream.sfu.ca/media/mymediasite/settings/publish-settings", "13. WHY DOES THE UPLOAD OF MY RECORDING FROM ZOOM OR POWERPOINT FAIL OR TAKE TOO LONG?\n\nIf you encounter a failure after waiting for a long time, make sure you are uploading a video file. When making videos using Zoom or PowerPoint it is important to acquire a video file. If a non-video file is uploaded to Mediasite you will not receive an error. Mediasite will keep trying to convert the file but will fail after a long time. Zoom Recordings When using the Zoom local recording feature, Zoom will create a special temporary file. This file will end with \" .zoom \". After a recording finishes, please allow Zoom some time to process this file and produce a file that ends with \". mp4 \" PowerPoint Recordings Microsoft PowerPoint will allow you to make a recording of your presentation. PowerPoint files end with \" . pptx \". When your presentation recording is complete you must export the video to produce a usable video file. This file should end with \". mp4 \". 6. Embedding and Linking Content 10. How can I share videos using a playlist? The My Mediasite application allows you to share multiple videos with your audience using \"Channels\". These playlists can be shared with students or other users, or they can be embedded inside of a Canvas course.", "Channels also enable the following optional features:\n\nDownload links for your audience (see Question #8 for more details) Comments from your audience Channel customizations To create a channel, please look at our how-to guide on sharing videos using a playlist/channel 11. Some of my embedded videos do not show up in canvas. What is going on? An issue was discovered that affects some Mediasite videos within Canvas. If a video was added by copying and pasting an embed code from MyMediasite, some users may encounter an error and the video player will not load. Any videos that were added by using the Mediasite LTI for Canvas are not affected.", "Please follow one of these workarounds:\n\nIf possible, use the Mediasite widget located in the Rich Content Editor rather than manually embedding videos. More information can be found in this guide . If this is not suitable for you, please try one of the remaining workarounds.", "For videos that do not require security:\n\nSlide the \"WHO CAN VIEW?\" toggle for your video in MyMediasite so that it is set to \"Everyone\". The error only affects videos that require authentication before viewing.", "For videos that must be secured:\n\nPlease ask anyone that is experiencing this problem to navigate to the video linked below. Once they login to watch the video, they should be able to go back to the Canvas course and view the missing content. The user may need to refresh the page if it was already opened beforehand. Note that this is not a permanent fix and may have to be done again if the user is no longer logged in. Watch this video and then return to the page containing the error above: https://stream.sfu.ca/Media/Play/fdcd03f7b6e54072b61ce47c0aec2b7f1d 7. Collaboration and Editing 12. How can I let my coworker edit one of my presentations or channels? If you need to provide editing privileges to a collaborator, you can make use of the green \"Edit Security\" button on your Presentation or Channel. Add the user to the list in this area, then make sure the security setting for \"Write\" has a check under \"Allow\" when clicking on their name in the list. More information is available from the people who created Mediasite: https://docs.mediasite.com/76/mymediasite/#!Documents/assigncustompermissionsdesktoponly1.htm 13. How can I add closed-captions to my videos? Mediasite allows you to upload closed-captioning files for your videos. Simply follow the steps below to add your captioning file. Note: Mediasite cannot automatically create captions for you. You must upload a caption file or create your own captions using Mediasite's caption editor.", "Add a caption file to your video:\n\nNavigate to your presentation. Click Edit and go to the Delivery tab. If you have not already enabled captioning, select the Captioning check box. Select the Manually Upload an Audio Caption File radio button and click Select a file to locate and select your closed caption file. Click Upload. Once the file is uploaded, launch the presentation in Mediasite Player and verify your captions appear as expected. 8. Privacy and Permissions 14. Can I record on campus? Select theatres are available for automated Lecture Capture during the semester. Recordings in rooms can only be scheduled by using the Lecture Capture Request Form. To ensure timely scheduling, please make sure to request this service at least 10 days before the start of the semester. You can always fill out the form to begin receiving recordings, even if the semester has already started, but we will not have recordings for any classes that have already passed. Recordings will appear in a channel created for your class. You can send a link to this channel to your course students, which can also be added to Canvas. 15. Can users download my videos? Mediasite streams your video in a way that cannot easily be saved through normal use. If you would like your audience to be able to easily download a copy of your video or audio presentation, please view the How-to guide on allowing users to download videos", "Teaching and Learning Lecture Capture Lecture Recording", "OVERVIEW\n\nBrowse frequently asked questions about lecture recording, such as copyright, duplicating dates/times and more. Frequently Asked Questions about Lecture Recording Which Classrooms Offer Automatic Recording? Burnaby Video + Audio Audio Only", "SWH\n\n10041, 10081", "WMC\n\n3210, 3220, 3250, 3260, 3510, 3520 RCB Images Theatre", "SSC C 9000\n\nSurrey Video + Audio Audio Only", "SRYC 2710, 2980, 2990, 2995, 3040, 5360\n\nVancouver Video + Audio Audio Only", "HCC 1500, 1510, 1520, 1530\n\nAll classrooms How do Students Access the Recordings? ITS will create a Mediasite channel for your course. Faculty can choose to embed the entire channel or individual videos into Canvas. Alternatively, direct links to the channel or specific videos can be shared with students. Who else can see my lecture recordings? ITS will automatically configure access so that only enrolled students can view the content. These videos are hosted on Mediasite, where faculty can customize their preferred security settings. For more details, please review the information under section 3: Adjusting Your Video Access Settings . How do I make my recordings available as downloads? By default, video files are not available as downloads for students. Faculty members can configure their videos in MyMediasite so that they provide a download link . How do I make changes to a recording? To edit a video, click the \"Edit Video\" option for each piece of content under the MyMediasite link. The web editor will then direct you to a new page where you can trim your video. How do I record my lecture from home? MyMediasite provides professors with access to recording software for use on your computer. Mediasite Mosaic is ideal for recording your webcam, microphone and computer screen. This program must be installed on your computer. Install Mediasite Mosaic on Windows Install Mediasite Mosaic on Mac WHere are my recordings from a previous semester? If you taught a course in the past 12 months and it was recorded through the ITS Lecture Recording service, ITS will have the original copies of these recordings. You can request that these recordings be retained for the upcoming semester by submitting a ticket. How do i add closed captions to my recordings? Mediasite offers transcription and captioning services. For more information, please get in touch", "HCC 1500, 1510, 1520, 1530\n\nLecture Recording service, ITS will have the original copies of these recordings. You can request that these recordings be retained for the upcoming semester by submitting a ticket. How do i add closed captions to my recordings? Mediasite offers transcription and captioning services. For more information, please get in touch with IT Services. How do i request a different start/end time for my next class? Lecture Recording schedules are based on the class times listed in SFU Outlines and cannot be changed for the semester. To alter the recording time for a single class, complete the \u201cSingle-Day Request\u201d section of the Lecture Recording Request form. If you need to adjust the recording time for multiple class days, please submit a separate request form for each affected day. It is your responsibility to ensure that the classroom is reserved for you during the requested times.", "CAN I RECORD MY LECTURE FOR STUDENTS IF I AM SHOWING CONTENT PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT?\n\nThe recording systems in the rooms do not restrict the recording of copyrighted materials. However, it is your responsibility to ensure that you have permission to record any content that is not your own. For more information about recording copyrighted materials, see SFU Library's copyright guidance for lecture materials. Related Services / Offerings (1) Classroom Technology - Request Lecture Recording Record course presentations hosted in SFU campus lecture theaters or class rooms.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications For this example, we\u2019ll assume you have a Shiny application ready to deploy in a folder called myapp on your computer. Sign up for the rcg-shiny-users maillist. [ tutorial ] Wait ~30 minutes for your maillist membership to become active. Use an SFTP client to connect to shiny.rcg.sfu.ca with your SFU computing ID (e.g., jsixpack ) and password. You will be placed in your home directory by default: /home/your_username. Open the ShinyApps folder. Upload the myapp folder you prepared in step 1 inside the ShinyApps folder.", "Use a web browser to test your app:\n\nhttps://shiny.rcg.sfu.ca/u/your_username/myapp Installing Packages Shiny Server will display a generic error page if it can't find one or more of the", "CRAN\n\npackages required by your appliaction. To install packages as required (i.e., to avoid installing packages every time someone views your application) use the following R code: packages <- c('package_name_1', 'package_name_2') install.packages(setdiff(packages, rownames(installed.packages()))) You can also install packages on shiny.rcg.sfu.ca ahead of time by: Signing up for the rcg-shiny-users maillist as described above SSHing to shiny.rcg.sfu.ca Running", "R\n\nInside R, running install.packages('your_package_name_here') Error Logs On shiny.rcg.sfu.ca, the most frequent cause of application failures is calling a package that hasn't been installed yet (see \"Advanced Users\") above. If something goes horribly wrong with your application, Shiny Server will record some relevant information in /home/your_sfu_computing_id/log. There may not be any logs recorded if your application responds with \u201cAn error has occurred. Check your logs or contact the app author for clarification\u201d. In this case, SSH into shiny.rcg.sfu.ca and run Rscript ~/path/to/server.R to reveal error messages and missing libraries. Repeat for ~/path/to/ui.R . Shiny application logs are automatically deleted at 11PM on the 1st of every month. Compute Power and Storage If your application has large storage or heavy computational requirements, please contact research-support@sfu.ca so we can point you to other hosting resources within RCG or elsewhere on campus. When Your SFU Account Expires Your application will remain active until you delete it, or until your SFU computing ID expires. R and CRAN package development move at a fairly swift pace, meaning applications tend to break after a several years without maintenance. You will need to plan ahead if you wish to keep your application available indefinitely. Support Undergrads taking STAT courses : please contact your professor or TA for assistance. Please be sure to wait 30 minutes after adding yourself to the rcg-shiny-users maillist before your first connection attempt. Researchers requiring assistance with shiny.rcg.sfu.ca should contact research-support@sfu.ca .", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications RCG Linux Terminal Server in SFU Cloud fail2ban: \u201cI can\u2019t SSH in anymore\u201d Things you need to know about rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca Old RCG Linux Terminal Servers", "RCG LINUX TERMINAL SERVER IN SFU CLOUD\n\nA new Linux terminal server was set up in January, 2020: rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca This is a VM running Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, and it exists within a VMware NSX environment known as \u201cSFU Cloud\u201d, physically located in the Water Tower Data Centre at SFU Burnaby. ( rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca can also be reached via its DNS alias, linux.cs.sfu.ca .)", "FAIL2BAN: \u201cI CAN\u2019T SSH IN ANYMORE\u201d\n\nIf your password is entered incorrectly five times in a row, fail2ban will automatically add your IP address to the banned host list. The same rule applies to failed SSH key authentication. You will not be able to SSH to rcga-linux-ts1 unless you either (1) wait 24 hours, or (2) contact research-support@sfu.ca with your IPv4 address. Check https://www.whatismyip.com/ if you do not know your current IPv4 address. You will need to visit this website from the computer on which you are having trouble, not from e.g., your phone.", "THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT RCGA-LINUX-TS1.DC.SFU.CA\n\nRun large jobs on your workstation, not on rcga-linux-ts1 This host should be used mostly for SSHing to your workstation and for lightweight work like text editing. Since this host is shared by others and has very limited CPU power and memory, it is not a good host to run large, long-running experiments. Rogue processes will be killed. Use your workstation for larger jobs. Only NFSv4 shares are automounted At the time of our TASC 2 server room meltdown (July 16th, 2020), some of the NFS research shares that were automounted on the old Linux terminal servers were still using NFSv3, coming from old fileservers in the TASC 2 server room. We temporarily resurrected rcg-linux-ts3.rcg.sfu.ca until the end of August, 2020, so that some of this NFSv3 data could be accessed, and to give us time to transfer the data to NFSv4 shares in SFU Cloud. By the end of August, 2020, all research data should be on NFSv4 servers. SSH is more strict The SSH configuration on rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca has been hardened such that only modern, secure encryption methods are accepted. You should be able to ssh into rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca from the command-line of modern versions of Linux and macOS. If you\u2019re a Windows user, then up-to-date versions of PuTTY and MobaXterm will also work. Note that CentOS 6 is too old ! If you try to ssh into rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca from the old rcg-linux-ts3.rcg.sfu.ca terminal server (due to be retired at the end of August), you\u2019ll get a response like this: no matching mac found: client hmac-sha1,umac-64@openssh.com,hmac-sha2-256,hmac-sha2-512,hmac-ripemd160,hmac-ripemd160@openssh.com,hmac-sha1-96 server hmac-sha2-256-etm@openssh.com,hmac-sha2-512-etm@openssh.com,umac-128-etm@openssh.com Note also that SSH Secure Shell for Windows is way too old ! This software hasn\u2019t been updated in 20 years! If you try to connect to rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca using this ancient software from the dark ages, you\u2019ll see the following: Try PuTTY", "THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT RCGA-LINUX-TS1.DC.SFU.CA\n\nno matching mac found: client hmac-sha1,umac-64@openssh.com,hmac-sha2-256,hmac-sha2-512,hmac-ripemd160,hmac-ripemd160@openssh.com,hmac-sha1-96 server hmac-sha2-256-etm@openssh.com,hmac-sha2-512-etm@openssh.com,umac-128-etm@openssh.com Note also that SSH Secure Shell for Windows is way too old ! This software hasn\u2019t been updated in 20 years! If you try to connect to rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca using this ancient software from the dark ages, you\u2019ll see the following: Try PuTTY or MobaXterm . (The latter is preferred if you want X-Windows support.) The firewall is very tight The firewall rules in SFU Cloud are very restrictive, both incoming and outgoing. As for incoming rules, port 22 on rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca is open to the internet, and everything else is blocked. If you need to use another port for something, you\u2019ll need to tunnel it via ssh. As for outgoing rules, only those ports necessary for accessing required services are open, and all other ports are blocked, including http and https. If you have a requirement to connect to an external web site, you\u2019ll need to proxy it. For more information on how to do this, please read Using the Proxy for Outgoing http/https Connections in SFU Cloud . Printing to SFU_Print rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca is configured to be able to print to SFU_Print from the command-line, using Kerberos authentication. (The CentOS 6 servers were too old work with SFU_Print.) For detailed information on how this works, please see our Printing from Linux to SFU_Print documentation.", "OLD RCG LINUX TERMINAL SERVERS\n\nThese Linux terminal servers were retired on July 17th, 2020", ", and they will not be coming back:\n\nrcg-linux-ts1.rcg.sfu.ca rcg-linux-ts2.rcg.sfu.ca ( rcg-linux-ts1.rcg.sfu.ca also used to be known by its DNS alias linux.cs.sfu.ca , but that alias now points to the new rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca server.) This Linux terminal server is due to be retired by the end of August, 2020: rcg-linux-ts3.rcg.sfu.ca These were VMs running the very old CentOS 6 Linux. They existed on KVM hypervisors located in SFU Burnaby\u2019s TASC 2 server room which suffered a power distribution meltdown on the night of July 16th, 2020.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications", "OVERVIEW\n\nSimon Fraser University\u2019s Fir supercomputer is one of the most powerful academic supercomputers in Canada. Fir provides the scale and capacity that is paving the way for new research breakthroughs. Use of Fir and other Digital Research Alliance of Canada facilities is free for Canadian researchers.", "REGISTER FOR AN ACCOUNT\n\nFir is part of the Digital Research Alliance of Canada (DRAC), and in order to access it you will need to obtain a DRAC account. A faculty member needs to register themselves at https://ccdb.alliancecan.ca => Register . The faculty member will be issued a CCRI (Compute Canada role identifier) which is a string of characters of the form abc-123-01 . The faculty member should send the CCRI to their collaborators. Collaborators should then register themselves at https://ccdb.alliancecan.ca => Register , inserting the CCRI in the Sponsor field of the application form. When your registration has been approved, go to https://ccdb.alliancecan.ca/me/access_systems and click to place a green checkmark beside Fir and any other Alliance HPC systems you plan to use.", "GETTING STARTED\n\nAfter you have registered and requested access, refer to the Getting Started page for tutorials on how to connect via SSH submit jobs and run software transfer files use visualization tools If you need further assistance, DRAC also holds regular New User Seminars .", "FURTHER READING\n\nResources available on Fir How to submit your job for processing Software FAQ : using modules, installing your own software", "TECHNICAL SUPPORT\n\nAll questions related to registration and Fir usage should be sent to support@tech.alliancecan.ca .", "TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS\n\nPlease refer to the Fir page on the DRAC wiki .", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications The printers that are managed by the Research Computing Group are, with few exceptions, blocked from direct printing. Printers like to advertise their presence on the network with various broadcast protocols that your computer might recognize. However, if you attempt to print to them, your printing will, in general, fail. Because printers consume real resources that cost money, we like to keep track of who prints how much. For that reason, we use print servers. Only the print servers are allowed to print directly to printers, and users must print via the print servers. RCG Print Server in SFU Cloud This new RCG", "CUPS\n\nand samba", "server was set up in the fall of 2019:\n\nrcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca This is a VM running Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, and it exists within a VMware NSX environment known as \u201cSFU Cloud\u201d, physically located in the Water Tower Data Centre at SFU Burnaby. Old RCG Print Server This old RCG", "CUPS\n\nand Samba server was retired on July 17th, 2020", ", and it will not be coming back:\n\nrcg-bluebell.rcg.sfu.ca This VM was running the very old CentOS 6 Linux. It existed on a KVM hypervisor located in SFU Burnaby\u2019s TASC 2 server room which suffered a power distribution meltdown on the night of July 16th, 2020. What is CUPS?", "CUPS\n\nis the \u201cCommon Unix Printing System\u201d, used by most Linux distributions and Mac OS X. This is what queues the print jobs on rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca and sends them to the printers. It also keeps track of who prints how many pages. If you want to see what printers are available and what their status is, point your web browser here: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/ Note that for security reasons, this URL will only work on-campus and not remotely. If you get a certificate warning, you should download and install the RCG CA Certificate. For details, please see our SSL documentation. If you want to see what print jobs are sitting in the queue, point your web browser here: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/jobs/ If you want to cancel your print job, you need to log-in using your campus computing account name and password. What is Samba? Samba is used to re-share the", "CUPS\n\nprinters to Windows computers. Windows computers print to samba", "printer shares on:\n\n\\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\ and then samba sends the print job into the corresponding", "CUPS\n\nqueue. To check the status of your print job, or to cancel it, use the aforementioned URLs.", "NOTE\n\n: On the new rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca server, the", "CUPS\n\nqueues names used by samba are suffixed with \u201c-raw\u201d . For example, if a windows user prints to \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\cmpt-faculty , samba sends the job to the cmpt-faculty-raw CUPS queue. This is because the non-raw CUPS queues use postscript drivers , whereas the samba printers use", "PCL\n\ndrivers, and they are incompatible with each other. SFU_Print SFU_Print is a service used to print to the Ricoh multi-function devices located in various places across the campus. This talks to a Windows PaperCut server which is independent from the RCG Print servers. Print jobs sent to SFU_Print bypass the RCG CUPS and Samba servers. Printing from Linux to CUPS Print Queues In versions of Linux that run older versions of", "CUPS\n\nsuch as CentOS 5 (", "CUPS 1.3\n\n) and CentOS 6 (", "CUPS 1.4\n\n) we use \u201cBrowsePoll\u201d to automatically get a list of all the printers on the RCG CUPS servers. Unfortunately, the developers of", "CUPS\n\n, in their misguided zealotry, decided to drop \u201cBrowsePoll\u201d in", "CUPS 1.6\n\nand above. This includes newer Linux versions such as CentOS 7. Fortunately, good people in the open source community developed \u201ccups-browsed\u201d which has similar functionality, and we use that on CentOS 7 and above to automatically populate the list of printers.", "To see what printers are available, just type:\n\nlpstat -a You should see a list of all the CUPS printers on rcga-blubell.dc.sfu.ca , depending on how the Linux computer has been configured. To print a pdf file such as \u201cfilename.pdf\u201d, to a printer such as \u201ccmpt-faculty\u201d on the Linux command-line, then type: lp -d cmpt-faculty filename.pdf And to check the status of your print job, point your web browser to: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/cmpt-faculty If you want to cancel your job, just hit the \u201cCancel Job\u201d button. You\u2019ll be prompted to authenticate. Use your campus computing account name and password. If you\u2019re using the GUI on a Linux Workstation, the \u201cPrint\u201d menu of the applications should see the same list of printers as lpstat -a . Printing from Linux to SFU_Print You can print to SFU_Print from the command-line of the RCG Linux terminal server rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca in SFU Cloud. (See RCG Linux Terminal Server in SFU Cloud for more details about this server.)", "If you type:\n\nlpstat -a you\u2019ll see a list of all the CUPS printers on rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca", ", and additionally you\u2019ll see extras like these:\n\nSFU_Print accepting requests since Fri 31 Jan 2020 03:22:02 PM PST SFU_Print-colour accepting requests since Wed 29 Jan 2020 10:49:17 PM PST SFU_Print-colour-single accepting requests since Wed 29 Jan 2020 10:58:47 PM PST SFU_Print-single accepting requests since Wed 29 Jan 2020 10:45:23 PM PST", "These four SFU_Print queues serve the following purposes:\n\nSFU_Print queue Purpose SFU_Print black&white 2-sided printing SFU_Print-single black&white 1-sided printing SFU_Print-colour colour 2-sided printing SFU_Print-colour-single colour 1-sided printing To print a pdf file, say, \u201cfilename.pdf\u201d to, say, SFU_Print-colour, just type the following: lp -d SFU_Print-colour filename.pdf This will work only if you have a valid Kerberos Ticket . If you log into rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca using your password, you\u2019ll automatically get a Kerberos Ticket upon login. However, if you use SSH public/private key exchange to log in without a password, that\u2019ll bypass Kerberos Ticket creation and you\u2019ll have to get one manually by typing: kinit For more information about Kerberos , please see our Kerberos FAQ for Linux Workstation Users .", "If you type:\n\nlpstat -o", "and you still see your job listed, as in:\n\nSFU_Print-colour-42 username 302080 Thu 06 Feb 2020 04:09:44 PM PST that means that your print job did not make it to SFU_Print , probably because you didn\u2019t have a valid Kerberos Ticket . You\u2019ll need to cancel the stuck print job, using the cancel", "command, as in:\n\ncancel SFU_Print-colour-42 and then kinit to get a Kerberos Ticket , and then try printing again. Please note that, by default, Kerberos Tickets expire after 10 hours . If you want, you can set up a cron job to auto-renew your Kerberos Tickets. For details on this, please see Q #21: Help! I run long-term processes on my Linux Workstation and Kerberos is locking my home directory! . However, this will only work for a maximum of one week. If you want Kerberos to work indefinitely without having to manually kinit , you can set up your own private keytab file . For details on this, please see Q #22: The answer to Q #21 isn\u2019t good enough! I need my processes to run unattended for weeks! . (For those of you who dont like the Unix System V print commands lp , lpstat , cancel , etc, the old Berkeley Unix print commands lpr , lpq , lprm , etc, are also available.) PaperCut PaperCut is the software that looks after page accounting for the SFU_Print system on campus. If you are using a Managed Desktop on campus, be it Linux, Mac, or Windows, it may be running a PaperCut Client App for SFU_Print. Here\u2019s what it looks like on a Linux GNOME desktop: You don\u2019t need to run the PaperCut Client App when printing to SFU_Print from the command-line of rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca with Kerberos authentication. Printing will work fine without it. However, if the PaperCut Client App is running when you print from the command-line of rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca to SFU_Print with Kerberos authentication, then a PaperCut window will pop-up with a notification that your print job is waiting for you to release it. Here\u2019s what it looks like on a Linux GNOME desktop: If you see this window, that means", "command, as in:\n\nwhen you print from the command-line of rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca to SFU_Print with Kerberos authentication, then a PaperCut window will pop-up with a notification that your print job is waiting for you to release it. Here\u2019s what it looks like on a Linux GNOME desktop: If you see this window, that means your print job was successful, and that all you have to do is go to the printer and tap your key fob to the sensor in order to release your printing. If you don\u2019t have a key fob, you can type in your Campus username and password on the printer\u2019s LCD screen. Note that you don\u2019t need to have the PaperCut Client running on the computer from which you print to SFU_Print. For example, you can print to SFU_Print from the command-line of rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca, which you ssh\u2019d into from a Macintosh Desktop, and if the PaperCut Client App is running on your Mac the notification window will pop up there. (And if you are logged into more than one desktop computer with PaperCut Client Apps running, then PaperCut appears to choose at random which one to notify. It doesn\u2019t notify more than one.) Printing from Mac OS X Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard) and below came installed with", "CUPS 1.4\n\nand below. This meant that printing worked much the same as on Linux. Newer versions of Mac OS X come installed with newer versions of", "CUPS\n\nfor which \u201cBrowsePoll\u201d has been dropped. Unfortunately, Apple doesn\u2019t have the open source \u201ccups-browsed\u201d option that Linux has. Apple\u2019s focus in recent years has been to make things easier for home users who print directly to their printers, at the expense of enterprise-level systems administrators who want their users to print via a print server. Thanks, Apple! :-( This means that printers need to be manually managed on newer versions of Mac OS X. If you\u2019re a do-it-yourselfer, here\u2019s how: 1. Don\u2019t use Apple\u2019s Print GUI to add printers! You\u2019ll see a list of printers on the network broadcasting their names via \u201cBonjour\u201d. If you try to add one of these printers, they won\u2019t work ! You need to use the print server. 2. Point your web browser to https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/ in order to see what printers are available. Pick out a printer that you want to add. For illustration, suppose it is the \u201censc1\u201d printer, which is an HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819. Assuming you have admin access to your Mac, open a Terminal and type the following: sudo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -p ensc1 -v ipp://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca/printers/ensc1 -D \"ensc1: HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819\" -L \"ASB 9819\" -E The ensc1 printer will now be available for printing to. (The \u201c-v\u201d string and the", "\u2018-E\u2019\n\nare important. You can use whatever you want for the", "\u201c-D\u201d\n\nand", "\u201c-L\u201d\n\nstrings. See man lpadmin for more details.)", "NOTE 1:\n\nThe printer shows up on the command-line as what you named it in the \u201c-p\u201d option. However, in the Mac OS X GUI, the printer shows up as what you gave in the", "\u201c-D\u201d\n\noption. Therefore it is a good idea to prefix the", "\u201c-D\u201d\n\ndescription string with the \u201c-p\u201d printer name so as to avoid confusion. In the above example, the \u201c-p\u201d printer name is \u201censc1\u201d , and it will show up in the Mac GUI as \u201censc1: HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819\u201d .", "NOTE 2:\n\nThe aforementioned method adds the printer without a local .ppd file. In the past, this worked fine because all the information contained in the .ppd file comes from the CUPS server. These days, however, some software (notoriously Adobe software) won\u2019t print without a local ``.ppd`` file ! In this case you need to setup the printer with a local .ppd", "file like this:\n\nsudo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -p ensc1 -v ipp://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca/printers/ensc1 -m \"/Library/Printers/PPDs/Contents/Resources/HP LaserJet P3010 Series.gz\" -D \"ensc1: HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819\" -L \"ASB 9819\" -E (This is assuming, of course, that you\u2019ve installed the HPPrinterDrivers package on your Mac.) Alternatively, you can ask us in the Research Computing Group to run script to add all the printers in your department/group/school. Once you\u2019ve printed a job to, say, the ensc1 printer via the Mac GUI, you can check its status by pointing your web browser to: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/ensc1 If you want to cancel your job, just hit the \u201cCancel Job\u201d button. You\u2019ll be prompted to authenticate. Use your campus computing account name and password. If, at some point, a printer becomes obsolete and is removed from the rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca print server, you\u2019ll need to manually remove it from your Mac. Here\u2019s how, assuming that the dead printer you want to get rid of is \u201censc1\u201d: sudo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -x ensc1 Printing from Windows The Windows printer shares come from \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\ . Your department/group/school might have a Windows Group Policy Object in Active Directory that automatically deploys printer shares from our Samba server, in which case the printers automagically appear when you log-in.", "If you need to manually add a printer, here\u2019s how:\n\nOpen up \u201cDevices & Printers\u201d in the Windows Control Panel. Hit \u201cAdd a printer\u201d . 3. The computer will start scanning for printers. Don\u2019t bother waiting! Just hit \u201cThe printer that I want isn\u2019t listed\u201d . This will bring up the \u201cAdd Printer\u201d dialog box. 4. Hit \u201cSelect a shared printer by name\u201d , and type \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\ into the field, but don\u2019t hit \u201cEnter\u201d yet. Just wait long enough, and eventually a drop-down menu will appear showing all the Samba print shares on rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca . Select the printer you want and then hit \u201cNext\u201d. For illustration, suppose it is the \u201ccmpt-t9201\u201d printer. 5. The first time you do this, the printer driver will be downloaded from rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca . (For \u201ccmpt-t9201\u201d, it is \u201cHP Universal Printing PCL6\u201d, version 6.8.0.24296.) You will need admin access to install the driver. (One advantage of using a Group Policy Object is that the drivers are automatically downloaded and installed without requiring admin access.) The cmpt-t9201 printer will now be available in the Windows GUI for printing to. Unless the driver install failed. This might happen if you\u2019re using a laptop that hasn\u2019t been joined to the ADSFU domain, because by default Windows 10 comes with \u201c Point and Print Restrictions \u201d that block print drivers from being installed. If you want to fix this, open a Command Prompt on your Windows computer and type: gpedit This will bring up the Local Group Policy Editor. Then go to: Computer Configuration:Administrative Templates:Printers to find the \u201c Point and Print Restrictions \u201d policy and disable it. (Or at least open it up to our Samba server rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca .) For good measure, you should also disable the \u201c Always render print jobs on server \u201d policy as well. The Samba server doesn\u2019t render print jobs. Once you\u2019ve printed a", "If you need to manually add a printer, here\u2019s how:\n\nand Print Restrictions \u201d policy and disable it. (Or at least open it up to our Samba server rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca .) For good measure, you should also disable the \u201c Always render print jobs on server \u201d policy as well. The Samba server doesn\u2019t render print jobs. Once you\u2019ve printed a job to the cmpt-t9201 printer via the Windows GUI, you can check its status by pointing your web browser to: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/cmpt-t9201 If you want to cancel your job, just hit the \u201cCancel Job\u201d button. You\u2019ll be prompted to authenticate. Use your campus computing account name and password. Printer Access Control There are two types of access control that we use for printers: host and user . As mentioned above, the printers that are managed by us are, in general, blocked from direct printing. In other words, only a small set of hosts (namely, the print servers and other administrative servers) are allowed to access the printers via the network. Additionally, rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca is able to restrict specific printers to specific user groups (or SFU maillists ). If you are a Lab Administrator and want your Lab Printer restricted to members of your Lab, please let us know at research-support@sfu.ca , and we will be happy to set this up for you. SFU_Print has its own access control system that is independent from the Research Computing Group. Contact its-papercut-help@sfu.ca for more information. Printer Accounting The rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca print server logs all print jobs, and once per month an accounting summary for each printer is automatically e-mailed to corresponding Lab Administrators and/or Departmental Administrators. Additionally, some printers have a per-user page quota in order to restrict overuse. If you are a Lab Administrator and want your Lab Printer to have quotas, please let us know at research-support@sfu.ca , and we will be happy to", "If you need to manually add a printer, here\u2019s how:\n\nis automatically e-mailed to corresponding Lab Administrators and/or Departmental Administrators. Additionally, some printers have a per-user page quota in order to restrict overuse. If you are a Lab Administrator and want your Lab Printer to have quotas, please let us know at research-support@sfu.ca , and we will be happy to set this up for you.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications This article is written for people who wish to access storage they have purchased via the Research Computing Group (RCG) . If you are uncertain whether your lab has purchased storage with RCG, please talk to your faculty member. If you are faculty looking to purchase research storage, please send a request to research-support@sfu.ca . Connecting to Research Storage on Windows Clients Start by opening Windows File Explorer . (No, not Internet Explorer!) In the address bar at the top of the Windows Explorer", "window, type:\n\n\\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\your_lab_share_name or \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\ (to see all available shares) and hit \u201cEnter\u201d. If your Windows computer is bound to ADSFU, then a window should open showing all the shares on rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca . Use your SFU computing ID and password if prompted, and prefix your username with \u201c", "\\\u201d. For example, if your username is \u201cmaryjane\u201d, then type:\n\nADSFU\\maryjane into the \u201cUser name\u201d field of the \u201cEnter Network Password\u201d dialog box, and use your SFU Computing password (the same one you use for SFU Mail). Connecting to Research Storage on macOS Clients Open the Finder. From the Go menu choose \" Connect to Server\u2026 \u201d.", "Type the following into the \u201cServer Address\u201d field:\n\nsmb://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca/your_lab_share_name or smb://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca (to see all available shares) then click the [ Connect] button. Enter your SFU computing ID and password when prompted. Accessing Your Research Home Directory Follow the directions above with your username as the share name. For example, if your SFU computing ID billybob", ", then it will be accessible at:\n\nWindows: \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\billybob macOS: smb://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca/billybob Remote Access to Research Storage The SFU VPN enables remote access to SFU file servers via rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca . You can browse available shares from off-campus by connecting to the SFU VPN and following the directions listed in the previous two sections. If you are asked to authenticate, use ADSFU\\<userid> as your username and your SFU computing account password.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Getting Started Your research network home directory is limited to a maximum of 10GB by default. You have probably exceeded your disk quota if you notice any of the following:", "SYMPTOMS\n\nLinux You can log in but are immediately logged out. You see a strange message about \u201cICEAuthority\u201d when logging in. Firefox won\u2019t launch. Opening a terminal session results in \u2018ENVIRONMENTS/RCG(11):ERROR:102: Tcl command execution failed\u2019 Windows When you try to save a file to your network home directory, an error dialog reports \u201cThere is not enough space on this drive\u201d. Run the quota -s command in a terminal. Sample quota -s output. No asterisk and \u201cBlocks [used]\u201d is less than your current quota, meaning you are under quota: $ quota -s", "Disk quotas for user jsixpack (uid 1001):\n\nFilesystem blocks quota limit grace files quota limit grace rcg-nfs-04.rcg.sfu.ca:/grad2/", "1630M 2900M 3072M 1984 0 0\n\nSample quota -s output when you are over quota. Note the presence of an asterisk: $ quota -s", "Disk quotas for user spacehog (uid 303):\n\nFilesystem blocks quota limit grace files quota limit grace rcg-nfs-04.rcg.sfu.ca:/grad1/ 3072M* 2900M 3072M 6days 14328 0 0", "Linux users:\n\nPress Ctrl-Alt-F2 and log in at the prompt. (You can\u2019t log in graphically since that requires free disk space.)", "Run this command:\n\ndu --max-depth 1 -x -k ~/ | sort -rn | less When the command finishes, a list of directories and the number of megabytes each one occupies will be displayed Delete files and directories you no longer need. You can also run ls -laSh | less (case-sensitive) to see if there are any unusually large files in the root of your home directory. Press Ctrl-Alt-F7 (or on some systems, Ctrl-Alt-F1) to return to the graphical login screen.", "Windows users:\n\nUse PuTTy to SSH to one of our RCG Linux Terminal Server in SFU Cloud .", "Run this command:\n\ndu --max-depth 1 -x -k ~/ | sort -rn | less Using the list of directory sizes provided, delete files and directories you no longer need. You can also run ls -laSh | less (case-sensitive) to see if there are any unusually large files in the root of your home directory.", "Linux users:\n\nQuit Firefox if it\u2019s running. Grab a shell by hitting Ctrl-Alt-F2, SSHing to one of our RCG Linux Terminal Server in SFU Cloud , or opening a new gnome-terminal window.", "Delete your Firefox cache:\n\n$ cd ~/.cache $ \\rm -r mozilla", "USE LAB SPACE: KEEP YOUR HOME DIRECTORY CLEAN\n\nKeep your home directory under quota by using your lab\u2019s (usually very large) shared storage space instead of your home directory. Not all research storage is backed up. If your lab has purchased backup service , verify your backup and data retention schedule with your lab admin or faculty member.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Getting Started", "CAN YOU UPGRADE GLIBC FOR ME?\n\nglibc and libstdc++ are core components of every Linux distribution and you should not attempt to upgrade them. (No upgrades are made available for this very reason.) If you are running into errors that suggest your glibc is out of date, contact your school\u2019s helpdesk about having your workstation reinstalled with a newer Linux distribution.", "I GET A STRANGE WARNING ABOUT \u201cICEAUTHORITY\u201d WHEN LOGGING IN.\n\nYou are probably out of disk space. See the Disk Quota page for diagnostic and cleanup instructions.", "THE LINUX OWNCLOUD/SFU VAULT CLIENT WON\u2019T START.\n\nSometimes the ownCloud settings files become altered or damaged in a certain way that prevents ownCloud from runnning. Delete ownCloud\u2019s settings, then try again. $ pkill -9 owncloud # ensure owncloud is not running $ cd ~/.local/share/data # $ rm -r ownCloud # deletes settings, not data $ ownCloud & # try running ownCloud again", "\u201cFIREFOX IS ALREADY RUNNING\u201d BUT IT ISN\u2019T. HELP!\n\nFirefox will not start up if it sees a lockfile in your Firefox profile directory. Try this: pkill firefox cd ~/.mozilla/firefox/ ls -lt <=== the topmost directory is your profile directory cd {your profile directory} rm lock rm .parentlock Now try launching Firefox again.", "FIREFOX IS BEHAVING STRANGELY\n\nThis happens a lot on Linux hosts. Move your current profile aside. Firefox will start a new one on the next launch: pkill firefox mv ~/.mozilla/firefox ~/old-firefox-settings cd ~/.cache rm -r mozilla # launch Firefox again", "GOOGLE CHROME STALLS OR BEHAVES STRANGELY\n\nMove aside your profile to reset Chrome. pkill google-chrome mv ~/.config/google-chrome ~/old-chrome-settings cd ~/.cache rm -r google-chrome # launch google-chrome again", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Getting Started Your school\u2019s staff may have forgotten to add you to the appropriate access control lists . Please contact your school\u2019s front office or helpdesk. Double-check your SFU credentials. Can you log into the SFU e-mail system with the username and password you have on hand? Reset your password if you can\u2019t. After five consecutive failed login attempts, campus Active Directory will lock your account for 5 minutes. To unlock it, simply wait 5 minutes and log in again with the correct password. Support staff cannot unlock your account after Active Directory has locked it. You will need to wait.", "LINUX LOGIN TROUBLESHOOTING\n\nIf your password is accepted but you\u2019re logged out after a few seconds, you have probably exceeded your disk quota .", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Getting Started", "HOW DO I GET AN SFU ACCOUNT?\n\nIf you are a visiting researcher, instructor, or student, talk to your faculty member about obtaining a sponsored account . Students should use their SFU computing ID and password to log in to research network hosts.", "I HAVE AN ACCOUNT BUT CAN\u2019T LOG IN.\n\nYour school or department needs to add you to the appropriate access control list before you can log in to research network hosts. Please contact your school\u2019s front office staff about being added to one of these access control lists: Computing Science Engineering Science cmpt-grad ensc-faculty cmpt-phd-msc grad-ensc cmpt-sessional ensc-rcg-courses cs-faculty ensc-researchers cs-grads ensc-staff cs-postdocs mse-grads cs-rcg-access cs-staff cs-visitors Please note it can take up to 30 minutes before access control list changes take effect.", "WHEN WILL MY ACCESS TO THE RESEARCH NETWORK EXPIRE?\n\nIf your SFU computing account is active, your access to the research network will remain active. For more information about when your SFU account expires, see the IT Services FAQ item \u201c Do I get to keep my SFU Computing ID after I leave the University? \u201d Sponsored accounts need to be renewed once a year . A reminder will be e-mailed to the user of the account approximately three weeks before the account expires.", "WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO MY FILES WHEN MY ACCOUNT EXPIRES?\n\nFiles in your research network home directory will remain in place for one year after your account expires. However, when your SFU account expires, you will lose access to these files. The same applies to your shared lab NFS space, except that files in this space (e.g., /cs/nll-research, /cs/vml3, \u2026) may be deleted by your faculty member or other lab members as they see fit. As above, you will lose access to these files when your SFU account expires.", "CAN I KEEP MY ACCOUNT?\n\nBefore your SFU computing account expires, you may request that it be converted into a sponsored account . Please talk to your faculty member as there is a yearly fee involved. After your account expires, your home directory contents will no longer be accessible, and your e-mail will become inaccessible after one year .", "LAB WIKIS\n\nAsk your supervisor or lab administrator to add you to the access control list for your lab\u2019s wiki, then wait 24 hours . Wiki access control lists are only synchronized once a day. If you\u2019ve been added to the appropriate list, waited 24 hours, and still don\u2019t have access to your lab wiki, contact webmaster@sfu.ca for assistance Not all labs make use of SFU\u2019s wiki service . If you would like to start a wiki to help organize your lab\u2019s activities, contact the SFU wiki administrator (wiki@sfu.ca) .", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Getting Started are already installed in our Python environment modules. $ module avail [to see all the Python versions available] $ module load LANG/PYTHON/2.7.13-SYSTEM $ pip list [to see what's inside LANG/PYTHON/2.7.13] ... ipython (0.13.2) numpy (1.4.1) pilkit (1.1.12) scikit-learn (0.15.2) scipy (0.7.2) sckdump (2.0.5)", "PIP\n\n$ module load LANG/PYTHON/2.7.13-SYSTEM [run `module avail` to see other versions] $ pip install --user modulename # Python 2.x $ pip3 install --user modulename # Python 3.x The commands above will install a Python module in your home directory without the need for administrator privileges. Warning Please don\u2019t upgrade pip when it asks. :-) It will break if you do. See below if you have a broken copy of pip.", "INSTALLING YOUR OWN PYTHON PACKAGES WITH ANACONDA\n\nIf environment modules don\u2019t meet your needs, install Anaconda (no sudo privileges required) and use conda install to manage your own Python environment.", "HOW CAN I USE PYCHARM WITH LANG/PYTHON/X?\n\nPlease see our PyCharm and Environment Modules page.", "I NEED A NEWER VERSION OF PYTHON INSTALLED\n\nNewer versions of Python are available as environment modules . $ module avail [to see all the Python versions available] $ module load LANG/PYTHON/3.5.2-SYSTEM $ which python3 [now Python 3.5.2 will be loaded when you run 'python3'] $ module purge [back to system python] Power users should check out Quick Tips for Using Environment Modules . Some users may prefer using Anaconda to manage different versions of Python and Python packages.", "Traceback (most recent call last):\n\n... from pip import main ImportError: cannot import name main If pip refuses to run and gives you the above error, Don\u2019t Panic(tm). Just delete your local copy of pip. Depending on which Python version you were using when you upgraded pip, you\u2019ll need to clear out some or all of these paths: ~/.local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/pip* ~/.local/lib/python3.5/site-packages/pip* ~/.local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/pip* Pip should run normally after you delete these files. Contact research-support@sfu.ca if you continue to have trouble.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Connectivity Warning: This space is not recommended for bulk storage or backups. IT Services recommends using your Microsoft OneDrive space or /net/home/your_username instead. Static web hosting space, formerly known as your fraser home directory, can be accessed via a web browser at http://www.sfu.ca/~yourusername/ , or via SFTP.", "CONNECTING VIA SSHFS\n\n# If you are off-campus, # connect to the SFU VPN before proceeding! $ mkdir ~/sfuhome $ sshfs jsixpack@rock.its.sfu.ca: ~/sfuhome Your SFU home directory should now be available at ~/sfuhome .", "CONNECTING VIA AN SFTP CLIENT\n\nIf you are off-campus, you must connect to the SFU VPN before proceeding. Open FileZilla . (If you don\u2019t like the look of FileZilla, try WinSCP or CyberDuck .) Create a new bookmark called \u201cSFU Home\u201d. Host", ":\n\nrock.its.sfu.ca Protocol : SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol Port", ":\n\nleave blank Logon Type : Normal User : your SFU computing ID, e.g. jsixpack , without quotation marks and without \u201c@sfu.ca\u201d. Password", ":\n\nLeave blank . You\u2019ll be asked for your password when you log in. Click \u201cOK\u201d. From the File menu, choose Site Manager . Select SFU Home .", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Connectivity", "USING A GRAPHICAL SFTP CLIENT WITH RCG STORAGE\n\nIf you\u2019re off-campus, one of the easiest way to access your research network home directory or lab storage is through a graphical SFTP client like the free and open source FileZilla . Note: If you don\u2019t like the look of FileZilla, try WinSCP (Windows) or Cyberduck (Mac, Windows). After installing FileZilla, create a bookmark to e.g., your research network home directory: Name it rcga-linux-ts1 (or whatever host you\u2019re connecting to) Host", ":\n\nrcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca Protocol : SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol Port", ":\n\nleave blank Logon Type : Normal User", ":\n\njsixpack (substitute your SFU computing ID; do not include @sfu.ca ) Password", ":\n\nleave blank . You\u2019ll be asked for your password when you log in. Hit \u201cOK\u201d. Connect to the SFU VPN before proceeding. In FileZilla, choose the File menu => Site Manager and select the site you want to connect to (eg. rcga-linux-ts1). Click the Connect button. (You can also hit the first icon on the left of the toolbar at the top of the window to bring up the Site Manager.) The first time you connect, you\u2019ll get a warning about the server\u2019s host key being unknown. Check the little check-box beside \u201cAlways trust this host\u2026\u201d and hit \u201cOK\u201d. Once you\u2019re connected, you\u2019ll see a split view: on the left will be your computer\u2019s local disk, and on the right will be the remote filesystem. By default you will be placed in your home directory. To download a file, right-click on a file in the right-hand window, and select \u201cDownload\u201d. To upload a file, right-click on a file in the left-hand window, and select \u201cUpload\u201d. Note: You can also access research network storage via SMB/CIFS on campus, or off-campus via the VPN .", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Connectivity The printers that are managed by the Research Computing Group are, with few exceptions, blocked from direct printing. Printers like to advertise their presence on the network with various broadcast protocols that your computer might recognize. However, if you attempt to print to them, your printing will, in general, fail. Because printers consume real resources that cost money, we like to keep track of who prints how much. For that reason, we use print servers. Only the print servers are allowed to print directly to printers, and users must print via the print servers.", "RCG PRINT SERVER IN SFU CLOUD\n\nThis new RCG", "CUPS\n\nand samba", "server was set up in the fall of 2019:\n\nrcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca This is a VM running Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, and it exists within a VMware NSX environment known as \u201cSFU Cloud\u201d, physically located in the Water Tower Data Centre at SFU Burnaby.", "OLD RCG PRINT SERVER\n\nThis old RCG", "CUPS\n\nand Samba server was retired on July 17th, 2020", ", and it will not be coming back:\n\nrcg-bluebell.rcg.sfu.ca This VM was running the very old CentOS 6 Linux. It existed on a KVM hypervisor located in SFU Burnaby\u2019s TASC 2 server room which suffered a power distribution meltdown on the night of July 16th, 2020.", "CUPS\n\nis the \u201cCommon Unix Printing System\u201d, used by most Linux distributions and Mac OS X. This is what queues the print jobs on rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca and sends them to the printers. It also keeps track of who prints how many pages. If you want to see what printers are available and what their status is, point your web browser here: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/ Note that for security reasons, this URL will only work on-campus and not remotely. If you get a certificate warning, you should download and install the RCG CA Certificate. For details, please see our SSL documentation. If you want to see what print jobs are sitting in the queue, point your web browser here: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/jobs/ If you want to cancel your print job, you need to log-in using your campus computing account name and password.", "WHAT IS SAMBA?\n\nSamba is used to re-share the", "CUPS\n\nprinters to Windows computers. Windows computers print to samba", "printer shares on:\n\n\\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\ and then samba sends the print job into the corresponding", "CUPS\n\nqueue. To check the status of your print job, or to cancel it, use the aforementioned URLs.", "NOTE\n\n: On the new rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca server, the", "CUPS\n\nqueues names used by samba are suffixed with \u201c-raw\u201d . For example, if a windows user prints to \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\cmpt-faculty , samba sends the job to the cmpt-faculty-raw CUPS queue. This is because the non-raw CUPS queues use postscript drivers , whereas the samba printers use", "PCL\n\ndrivers, and they are incompatible with each other.", "SFU_Print is a service used to print to the Ricoh multi-function devices located in various places across the campus. This talks to a Windows PaperCut server which is independent from the RCG Print servers. Print jobs sent to SFU_Print bypass the RCG CUPS and Samba servers.", "PRINTING FROM LINUX TO CUPS PRINT QUEUES\n\nIn versions of Linux that run older versions of", "CUPS\n\nsuch as CentOS 5 (", "CUPS 1.3\n\n) and CentOS 6 (", "CUPS 1.4\n\n) we use \u201cBrowsePoll\u201d to automatically get a list of all the printers on the RCG CUPS servers. Unfortunately, the developers of", "CUPS\n\n, in their misguided zealotry, decided to drop \u201cBrowsePoll\u201d in", "CUPS 1.6\n\nand above. This includes newer Linux versions such as CentOS 7. Fortunately, good people in the open source community developed \u201ccups-browsed\u201d which has similar functionality, and we use that on CentOS 7 and above to automatically populate the list of printers.", "To see what printers are available, just type:\n\nlpstat -a You should see a list of all the CUPS printers on rcga-blubell.dc.sfu.ca , depending on how the Linux computer has been configured. To print a pdf file such as \u201cfilename.pdf\u201d, to a printer such as \u201ccmpt-faculty\u201d on the Linux command-line, then type: lp -d cmpt-faculty filename.pdf And to check the status of your print job, point your web browser to: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/cmpt-faculty If you want to cancel your job, just hit the \u201cCancel Job\u201d button. You\u2019ll be prompted to authenticate. Use your campus computing account name and password. If you\u2019re using the GUI on a Linux Workstation, the \u201cPrint\u201d menu of the applications should see the same list of printers as lpstat -a .", "PRINTING FROM LINUX TO SFU_PRINT\n\nYou can print to SFU_Print from the command-line of the RCG Linux terminal server rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca in SFU Cloud. (See RCG Linux Terminal Server in SFU Cloud for more details about this server.)", "If you type:\n\nlpstat -a you\u2019ll see a list of all the CUPS printers on rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca", ", and additionally you\u2019ll see extras like these:\n\nSFU_Print accepting requests since Fri 31 Jan 2020 03:22:02 PM PST SFU_Print-colour accepting requests since Wed 29 Jan 2020 10:49:17 PM PST SFU_Print-colour-single accepting requests since Wed 29 Jan 2020 10:58:47 PM PST SFU_Print-single accepting requests since Wed 29 Jan 2020 10:45:23 PM PST", "These four SFU_Print queues serve the following purposes:\n\nSFU_Print queue Purpose SFU_Print black&white 2-sided printing SFU_Print-single black&white 1-sided printing SFU_Print-colour colour 2-sided printing SFU_Print-colour-single colour 1-sided printing To print a pdf file, say, \u201cfilename.pdf\u201d to, say, SFU_Print-colour, just type the following: lp -d SFU_Print-colour filename.pdf This will work only if you have a valid Kerberos Ticket . If you log into rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca using your password, you\u2019ll automatically get a Kerberos Ticket upon login. However, if you use SSH public/private key exchange to log in without a password, that\u2019ll bypass Kerberos Ticket creation and you\u2019ll have to get one manually by typing: kinit For more information about Kerberos , please see our Kerberos FAQ for Linux Workstation Users .", "If you type:\n\nlpstat -o", "and you still see your job listed, as in:\n\nSFU_Print-colour-42 username 302080 Thu 06 Feb 2020 04:09:44 PM PST that means that your print job did not make it to SFU_Print , probably because you didn\u2019t have a valid Kerberos Ticket . You\u2019ll need to cancel the stuck print job, using the cancel", "command, as in:\n\ncancel SFU_Print-colour-42 and then kinit to get a Kerberos Ticket , and then try printing again. Please note that, by default, Kerberos Tickets expire after 10 hours . If you want, you can set up a cron job to auto-renew your Kerberos Tickets. For details on this, please see Q #21: Help! I run long-term processes on my Linux Workstation and Kerberos is locking my home directory! . However, this will only work for a maximum of one week. If you want Kerberos to work indefinitely without having to manually kinit , you can set up your own private keytab file . For details on this, please see Q #22: The answer to Q #21 isn\u2019t good enough! I need my processes to run unattended for weeks! . (For those of you who dont like the Unix System V print commands lp , lpstat , cancel , etc, the old Berkeley Unix print commands lpr , lpq , lprm , etc, are also available.)", "PaperCut is the software that looks after page accounting for the SFU_Print system on campus. If you are using a Managed Desktop on campus, be it Linux, Mac, or Windows, it may be running a PaperCut Client App for SFU_Print. Here\u2019s what it looks like on a Linux GNOME desktop: You don\u2019t need to run the PaperCut Client App when printing to SFU_Print from the command-line of rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca with Kerberos authentication. Printing will work fine without it. However, if the PaperCut Client App is running when you print from the command-line of rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca to SFU_Print with Kerberos authentication, then a PaperCut window will pop-up with a notification that your print job is waiting for you to release it. Here\u2019s what it looks like on a Linux GNOME desktop: If you see this window, that means your print job was successful, and that all you have to do is go to the printer and tap your key fob to the sensor in order to release your printing. If you don\u2019t have a key fob, you can type in your Campus username and password on the printer\u2019s LCD screen. Note that you don\u2019t need to have the PaperCut Client running on the computer from which you print to SFU_Print. For example, you can print to SFU_Print from the command-line of rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca, which you ssh\u2019d into from a Macintosh Desktop, and if the PaperCut Client App is running on your Mac the notification window will pop up there. (And if you are logged into more than one desktop computer with PaperCut Client Apps running, then PaperCut appears to choose at random which one to notify. It doesn\u2019t notify more than one.)", "PRINTING FROM MAC OS X\n\nMac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard) and below came installed with", "CUPS 1.4\n\nand below. This meant that printing worked much the same as on Linux. Newer versions of Mac OS X come installed with newer versions of", "CUPS\n\nfor which \u201cBrowsePoll\u201d has been dropped. Unfortunately, Apple doesn\u2019t have the open source \u201ccups-browsed\u201d option that Linux has. Apple\u2019s focus in recent years has been to make things easier for home users who print directly to their printers, at the expense of enterprise-level systems administrators who want their users to print via a print server. Thanks, Apple! :-( This means that printers need to be manually managed on newer versions of Mac OS X. If you\u2019re a do-it-yourselfer, here\u2019s how: 1. Don\u2019t use Apple\u2019s Print GUI to add printers! You\u2019ll see a list of printers on the network broadcasting their names via \u201cBonjour\u201d. If you try to add one of these printers, they won\u2019t work ! You need to use the print server. 2. Point your web browser to https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/ in order to see what printers are available. Pick out a printer that you want to add. For illustration, suppose it is the \u201censc1\u201d printer, which is an HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819. Assuming you have admin access to your Mac, open a Terminal and type the following: sudo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -p ensc1 -v ipp://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca/printers/ensc1 -D \"ensc1: HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819\" -L \"ASB 9819\" -E The ensc1 printer will now be available for printing to. (The \u201c-v\u201d string and the", "\u2018-E\u2019\n\nare important. You can use whatever you want for the", "\u201c-D\u201d\n\nand", "\u201c-L\u201d\n\nstrings. See man lpadmin for more details.)", "NOTE 1:\n\nThe printer shows up on the command-line as what you named it in the \u201c-p\u201d option. However, in the Mac OS X GUI, the printer shows up as what you gave in the", "\u201c-D\u201d\n\noption. Therefore it is a good idea to prefix the", "\u201c-D\u201d\n\ndescription string with the \u201c-p\u201d printer name so as to avoid confusion. In the above example, the \u201c-p\u201d printer name is \u201censc1\u201d , and it will show up in the Mac GUI as \u201censc1: HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819\u201d .", "NOTE 2:\n\nThe aforementioned method adds the printer without a local .ppd file. In the past, this worked fine because all the information contained in the .ppd file comes from the CUPS server. These days, however, some software (notoriously Adobe software) won\u2019t print without a local ``.ppd`` file ! In this case you need to setup the printer with a local .ppd", "file like this:\n\nsudo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -p ensc1 -v ipp://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca/printers/ensc1 -m \"/Library/Printers/PPDs/Contents/Resources/HP LaserJet P3010 Series.gz\" -D \"ensc1: HP LaserJet P3015 in ASB 9819\" -L \"ASB 9819\" -E (This is assuming, of course, that you\u2019ve installed the HPPrinterDrivers package on your Mac.) Alternatively, you can ask us in the Research Computing Group to run script to add all the printers in your department/group/school. Once you\u2019ve printed a job to, say, the ensc1 printer via the Mac GUI, you can check its status by pointing your web browser to: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/ensc1 If you want to cancel your job, just hit the \u201cCancel Job\u201d button. You\u2019ll be prompted to authenticate. Use your campus computing account name and password. If, at some point, a printer becomes obsolete and is removed from the rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca print server, you\u2019ll need to manually remove it from your Mac. Here\u2019s how, assuming that the dead printer you want to get rid of is \u201censc1\u201d: sudo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -x ensc1", "PRINTING FROM WINDOWS\n\nThe Windows printer shares come from \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\ . Your department/group/school might have a Windows Group Policy Object in Active Directory that automatically deploys printer shares from our Samba server, in which case the printers automagically appear when you log-in.", "If you need to manually add a printer, here\u2019s how:\n\nOpen up \u201cDevices & Printers\u201d in the Windows Control Panel. Hit \u201cAdd a printer\u201d . 3. The computer will start scanning for printers. Don\u2019t bother waiting! Just hit \u201cThe printer that I want isn\u2019t listed\u201d . This will bring up the \u201cAdd Printer\u201d dialog box. 4. Hit \u201cSelect a shared printer by name\u201d , and type \\\\rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca\\ into the field, but don\u2019t hit \u201cEnter\u201d yet. Just wait long enough, and eventually a drop-down menu will appear showing all the Samba print shares on rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca . Select the printer you want and then hit \u201cNext\u201d. For illustration, suppose it is the \u201ccmpt-t9201\u201d printer. 5. The first time you do this, the printer driver will be downloaded from rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca . (For \u201ccmpt-t9201\u201d, it is \u201cHP Universal Printing PCL6\u201d, version 6.8.0.24296.) You will need admin access to install the driver. (One advantage of using a Group Policy Object is that the drivers are automatically downloaded and installed without requiring admin access.) The cmpt-t9201 printer will now be available in the Windows GUI for printing to. Unless the driver install failed. This might happen if you\u2019re using a laptop that hasn\u2019t been joined to the ADSFU domain, because by default Windows 10 comes with \u201c Point and Print Restrictions \u201d that block print drivers from being installed. If you want to fix this, open a Command Prompt on your Windows computer and type: gpedit This will bring up the Local Group Policy Editor. Then go to: Computer Configuration:Administrative Templates:Printers to find the \u201c Point and Print Restrictions \u201d policy and disable it. (Or at least open it up to our Samba server rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca .) For good measure, you should also disable the \u201c Always render print jobs on server \u201d policy as well. The Samba server doesn\u2019t render print jobs. Once you\u2019ve printed a", "If you need to manually add a printer, here\u2019s how:\n\nand Print Restrictions \u201d policy and disable it. (Or at least open it up to our Samba server rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca .) For good measure, you should also disable the \u201c Always render print jobs on server \u201d policy as well. The Samba server doesn\u2019t render print jobs. Once you\u2019ve printed a job to the cmpt-t9201 printer via the Windows GUI, you can check its status by pointing your web browser to: https://rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca:8008/printers/cmpt-t9201 If you want to cancel your job, just hit the \u201cCancel Job\u201d button. You\u2019ll be prompted to authenticate. Use your campus computing account name and password.", "PRINTER ACCESS CONTROL\n\nThere are two types of access control that we use for printers: host and user . As mentioned above, the printers that are managed by us are, in general, blocked from direct printing. In other words, only a small set of hosts (namely, the print servers and other administrative servers) are allowed to access the printers via the network. Additionally, rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca is able to restrict specific printers to specific user groups (or SFU maillists ). If you are a Lab Administrator and want your Lab Printer restricted to members of your Lab, please let us know at research-support@sfu.ca , and we will be happy to set this up for you. SFU_Print has its own access control system that is independent from the Research Computing Group. Contact its-papercut-help@sfu.ca for more information.", "PRINTER ACCOUNTING\n\nThe rcga-bluebell.dc.sfu.ca print server logs all print jobs, and once per month an accounting summary for each printer is automatically e-mailed to corresponding Lab Administrators and/or Departmental Administrators. Additionally, some printers have a per-user page quota in order to restrict overuse. If you are a Lab Administrator and want your Lab Printer to have quotas, please let us know at research-support@sfu.ca , and we will be happy to set this up for you.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Connectivity and connect to the SFU VPN before proceeding. Windows users : download and install an SSH client like PuTTY or MobaXterm . Be sure to specify \u201c Username", ":\n\nyour_sfu_username \u201d when connecting. ssh jsmith@your-workstation.(cmpt/engineering).sfu.ca (substitute \u201cjsmith\u201d for your SFU computing ID)", "REMOTE ACCESS POWER TOOLS: TMUX\n\ntmux is ideal for keeping long jobs running on your workstation. It also allows you to freely disconnect and reattach to a set of shell sessions from wherever you are, and is ideal for monitoring long-running jobs. A brief introduction: Run tmux on your workstation. Start your job. Detach from tmux by pressing [Ctrl-B] [D]. When you\u2019re away from your lab workstation, SSH to one of our console servers (see above). SSH to your lab workstation and run tmux attach . [ more tmux tips and tricks ]", "USING VISUAL STUDIO CODE REMOTELY\n\nSee https://code.visualstudio.com/blogs/2019/10/03/remote-ssh-tips-and-tricks . A \u201cjump host\u201d is no longer required if you are using the SFU VPN.", "USING PYCHARM REMOTELY\n\nSee https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/configuring-remote-interpreters-via-ssh.html . A \u201cjump host\u201d is no longer required if you are using the SFU VPN.", "UBUNTU 20/22 WORKSTATIONS: GRAPHICAL REMOTE DESKTOP\n\nPlease note that due to the nature of session handling in GNOME Desktop, you cannot be logged into a local and remote graphical session at the same time. You may need to run pkill -u $USER gnome-session before starting a graphical RDP session.", "Download and install an RDP client:\n\nMac", ":\n\nMicrosoft Remote Desktop Linux", ":\n\nxfreerdp or Remmina Windows : Taskbar search => Remote Desktop Connection Mac Connect to the SFU VPN service before proceeding. PC Name : your-workstation-name.cmpt.sfu.ca:48555 Gateway => None [Save] , then double-click on the connection you just created. When prompted, enter your SFU computing ID (i.e., jsmith ) and password. Linux Connect to the SFU VPN service before proceeding.", "FreeRDP:\n\nxfreerdp /u:jsmith /port:48555 \\ /v:your-lab-workstation.cmpt.sfu.ca (substitute \"jsmith\" for your SFU computing ID)", "Remmina:\n\nClick the New Connection Profile button at the top-left corner of the window. Protocol", ": RDP\n\nServer : your-workstation-name.cmpt.sfu.ca:48555 Username/Password : your SFU computing ID (i.e., jsmith ) and password [Save] , then double-click on the connection you just created. When prompted, enter your SFU computing ID (i.e., jsmith ) and password. Windows Connect to the SFU VPN service before proceeding. Computer : your-workstation-name.cmpt.sfu.ca:48555 Username : ADSFU\\jsmith (substitute \u201cjsmith\u201d for your SFU computing ID) Logon Method : Ask for password", "UBUNTU 16 WORKSTATIONS: GRAPHICAL REMOTE DESKTOP\n\nWorkstations with older releases of Ubuntu can still be accessed remotely but setup is more complicated. See Graphical Remote Access for Older Workstations for instructions.", "UBUNTU 20 WORKSTATIONS: MY RDP SESSION IS STUCK\n\nRun pkill -u yourusername to kill all processes belonging to you on the machine, then try logging in again.", "MY SSH SESSIONS KEEP GETTING DISCONNECTED!\n\nOn your local computer (not your lab computer) add these lines to ~/.ssh/config", ":\n\nHost * ServerAliveInterval 120", "TEAMVIEWER, ANYDESK & NOMACHINE\n\nRunning NoMachine, TeamViewer, AnyDesk, Google Chrome Remote Desktop or similar tools pose a serious security risk. Please use SSH or xrdp as outlined above instead. Contrary to popular belief, NoMachine, TeamViewer and AnyDesk are not free for academic use . \"Free for personal use\" does not mean \"free to use on my personal lab worktation\". You are in violation of these products' license agreements if you install them without purchasing a license. Remote access solutions other than SSH (see below) are not supported due to serious security risks. If you are considering using NoMachine, TeamViewer, AnyDesk or similar products, you must contact the IT Services security officer to perform a Privacy Impact Assessment.", "TRANSFERRING FILES DIRECTLY TO YOUR WORKSTATION\n\nFor SFU VPN Users: Direct Access You should be able to SFTP directly to your workstation if you are connected to the SFU VPN . Use your NFS Home Directory", "SFTP\n\nto rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca:/net/home/your_username . This directory is also available on your workstation, so it\u2019s nearly as good as a direct SFTP connection but is limited to your 10GB of NFS home directory quota . Multi-Hop SFTP Also known as using a \u201cjump host\u201d. Use MobaXterm or WinSCP to establish an SFTP connection to your workstation through rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca . https://blog.mobatek.net/post/ssh-tunnels-and-port-forwarding/ https://winscp.net/eng/docs/guide_tunnel", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Connectivity Applications will not persist when you disconnect. Windows users: use MobaXterm , a free X server and SSH client", "Mac OS X users:\n\nSSH+X11 forwarding How-To", "METHOD 2: VNC OVER SSH TUNNEL\n\nStep #1: Fix Your Xstartup File Make sure you fix your .vnc/xstartup file in your Linux server home directory. The one you used for CentOS will not work for Ubuntu . Here\u2019s what we recommend as a bare minimum for the contents: #!/bin/bash xrdb $HOME/.Xresources xsetroot -solid grey # Fix to make GNOME work export XKL_XMODMAP_DISABLE=1 unset SESSION_MANAGER unset DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS mate-session & If you are met with a grey screen instead of MATE Desktop, ensure your xstartup file is executable: $ chmod +x ~/.vnc/xstartup If you want to load some modules into your MATE session so that they will automatically be loaded in all shells, then use something akin to the following. This example is with the LANG/PYTHON/3.5.2-SYSTEM module: #!/bin/bash xrdb $HOME/.Xresources xsetroot -solid grey # Fix to make GNOME work export XKL_XMODMAP_DISABLE=1 unset SESSION_MANAGER unset DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS . /etc/profile.d/modules_environment.sh module load LANG/PYTHON/3.5.2-SYSTEM mate-session & NOTE: if you use VNC to connect to both CentOS and Ubuntu servers, then you\u2019ll need to write some code into your xstartup file to autodetect the Linux distro and act accordingly. Step #2: Set A VNC Password Make sure you set a VNC password with the vncpasswd command. Step #3: Start The VNC Server", "ssh into the Ubuntu Linux server and type:\n\nvncserver It will start up the stuff in your .vnc/xstartup file and will respond with something like: New 'X' desktop is myserver.mydomain.sfu.ca:n where myserver.mydomain.sfu.ca is the server\u2019s hostname and n is the virtual desktop number. Remember this number. The tcp port number used by VNC will be 5900+n. You can now log out of the server. The vnc session will remain running, virtually forever, until the server gets rebooted or you ssh in and issue: vncserver -kill :n (where n is the virtual desktop number) Step #4: Tunnel VNC Via SSH", "NEVER\n\nconnect directly to the VNC port! This is a security risk! tightvnc, which is the default VNC packaged with Ubuntu 16, does not support encryption and therefore all packets sent over the internet without being tunneled via SSH are open to snooping. Although some VNC clients, such as RealVNC on Windows do support encryption, it won\u2019t help if the server doesn\u2019t! In order to protect users from this risk, we firewall the VNC ports on Ubuntu servers. You therefore must tunnel the VNC ports via SSH. (Those of you who used VNC with CentOS 6 servers might have avoided tunneling because the default VNC packaged with CentOS 6 is tigervnc, which does support encryption.) SSH tunneling is easily done on the command-line of any Linux or Mac workstation. On a Windows workstation, you can set up SSH tunneling via PuTTY , but we recommend MobaXterm because then the instructions are exactly the same as for Linux and Mac. If your Windows workstation doesn\u2019t have MobaXterm", ", you can download the home edition for free from:\n\nhttp://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download.html On your client workstation or home computer, you\u2019ll need to open 2 Linux shells, or 2 Mac Terminals or 2 MobaXterm windows. Choose an unused TCP port on your client workstation that you\u2019d like to use to tunnel SSH to your VNC server on. Let\u2019s say it\u2019s 9999. Suppose that your VNC server\u2019s hostname is \u201cmyserver.mydomain.sfu.ca\u201d and that your username is \u201cuser\u201d. In Terminal 1, type: ssh -L 9999:myserver.mydomain.sfu.ca:22 user@rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca and log into rcga-linux-ts1. Now port 9999 on your client workstation or home computer talks to port 22 on your VNC server via our Linux Terminal Server. Let\u2019s suppose that your VNC server is using virtual desktop number 4. That means that it\u2019s listening on TCP port 5904. In Terminal 2, type: ssh -L 5904:127.0.0.1:5904 -p 9999 user@127.0.0.1 and log into 127.0.0.1 (which is actually myserver.mydomain.sfu.ca.) This will tunnel port 5904 on your home computer or client workstation to port 5904 on your VNC server (through the port 9999 tunnel that you set up). NOTE that you must tunnel via rcga-linux-ts1.dc.sfu.ca if you are off campus or on wireless, because direct SSH access to hosts on campus is in general blocked (and so are the VNC ports). Step #5: Connect Your VNC Client To The Local End Of The Tunnel Assuming your virtual desktop is 4 , connect your VNC client to 127.0.0.1:4 . This is the local end of the tunnel. Use your VNC password set in step #2. The data will be fully encrypted via ssh all the way to your VNC server. Step #6: Kill Your VNC Server Sessions When You\u2019re Done With Them Please kill your old vncserver sessions with vncserver -kill :n when you are done with them. Don\u2019t just start new ones! (We\u2019ve seen some users with dozens of vnc sessions running on", ", you can download the home edition for free from:\n\nthe way to your VNC server. Step #6: Kill Your VNC Server Sessions When You\u2019re Done With Them Please kill your old vncserver sessions with vncserver -kill :n when you are done with them. Don\u2019t just start new ones! (We\u2019ve seen some users with dozens of vnc sessions running on the same server! You only need one!) If you\u2019re not sure, take a look at the process table with ps -ef | grep -i vnc", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Connectivity Please see the Visual Studio Code online documentation for more information: https://code.visualstudio.com/blogs/2019/10/03/remote-ssh-tips-and-tricks", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Linux and Software Environment ^-- run this first to see a list of all available software $ module load LANG/PYTHON/2.7.13-SYSTEM ^-- use modules to place a newer Python in your $PATH $ which python /rcg/software/Linux/Ubuntu/16.04/amd64/LANG/PYTHON/2.7.13-SYSTEM/bin/python ^-- now if you run `python`, you'll get a v2.7.13", "ADVANCED COMMANDS\n\n$ module list ^-- show what's currently loaded $ module purge ^-- unload all environment modules $ module unload LANG/PYTHON/2.7.13-SYSTEM ^-- unload a single environment module $ module switch LANG/PYTHON/3.6.2-SYSTEM ^-- switch to a different version", "I DON\u2019T SEE THE SOFTWARE I WANT\n\nE-mail research-support@sfu.ca if you have requests for additional software. Be sure to include a download URL and the hostname of your workstation.", "HOW TO I COMPILE SOFTWARE AGAINST LIB/X?\n\nEach module appends your", "INCLUDE_PATH\n\nand", "LD_LIBRARY_PATH\n\nwhere appropriate. Most clean, well-architected build scripts will pick these up automatically. If you\u2019re dealing with a stubborn configure or compile process, you can find the paths you\u2019ll need to link or include by running module show", ":\n\n$ module show LANG/PYTHON/3.6.2-SYSTEM ------------------------------------------------------------------- prepend-path LD_LIBRARY_PATH /rcg/software/Linux/Ubuntu/16.04/amd64/LANG/PYTHON/3.6.2-SYSTEM/lib64 prepend-path INCLUDE /rcg/software/Linux/Ubuntu/16.04/amd64/LANG/PYTHON/3.6.2-SYSTEM/include", "AUTOMATICALLY LOADING MODULES AT LOGIN\n\n~/privatemodules/login is loaded automatically when spawning a new shell. To ensure the latest Python and emacs are available in all new shells: cat > ~/privatemodules/login #%Module1.0 module load TOOLS/EMACS/26.1 module load LANG/PYTHON/3.6.2-SYSTEM It is not a good idea to add module load commands to your ~/.bashrc or ~/.bash_profile as this may break SFTP .", "WHY THIS CRAZY MODULE STUFF?\n\n\u201cCan\u2019t you just install X on my workstation?\u201d Whenever possible, we make software available as", "to:\n\nMake it accessible to everyone. Free up time & avoid customizing workstations. Make it easy to switch between multiple versions of something. Mimic what supercomputing facilities do so it\u2019s easier to start running your code on e.g., Cedar .", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Linux and Software Environment 1. Using Firefox, open http://extensions.gnome.org. Search for and open \"Dash to Dock\". 2. Install the suggested browser extension for GNOME shell. 3. Click \"Continue to Installation\". 4. Click \"Add\". 5. Click \"Refresh\" or press Ctrl-R. 6. Click the On/Off switch to the right. 7. Click Install . 8. Close Firefox. The dock should now stay visible at all times, except when an application is in fullscreen mode.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Linux and Software Environment is the 3-headed dog that guards the gates of hell. is also the authentication protocol used to protect the contents of your Linux NFSv4 home directory from prying eyes. Q #2: What Is NFSv4?", "NFS\n\nrefers to \u201cNetwork File System\u201d which is where Linux home directories are kept. It allows you to use the same home directory on any Linux machine on the Campus wired network. NFSv4 refers to version 4 of this Network File System, which allows for Kerberization . Q #3: What Is Kerberization? Kerberization is the process by which is enabled on your Linux NFSv4 home directory (and other things), such that nobody can view its contents without a Kerberos Ticket . Q #4: What Is A Kerberos Ticket?", "A\n\nKerberos Ticket is a chunk of encrypted data that gives you access to things on the Campus wired network such as your NFSv4 home directory. Q #5: How Do I Get A Kerberos Ticket? Upon successfully logging in to a Linux Workstation on the Campus wired network, you will (if the system is working correctly) automatically be issued a Kerberos Ticket known as a \u201cTicket Granting Ticket\u201d . This ticket is then used to gain access to other things, such as your Linux NFSv4 home directory. Each such thing you access causes a new Kerberos Ticket to be generated, specific to the service you\u2019re accessing. Q #6: How Long Does A Kerberos Ticket Last? By default, all Kerberos Tickets have a 10 hour lifetime before they expire, and a maximum renewal period of 1 week . If you want to renew your ticket, you must do so before it expires . If you wait until after the 10 hours is up, then it is too late, and you must get a new one . Q #7: What Happens When My Kerberos Ticket Expires? You lose acceess to your home directory . You will regain access to your home directory when you get a new Kerberos Ticket . Q #8: How Do I Renew My Kerberos Ticket Before It Expires? See", "Q #13\n\nor", "Q #23\n\n. Q #9: How Do I Get A New Kerberos Ticket After My Old One Expires? See", "Q #14\n\nor", "Q #23\n\n. Q #10: Do I Need To Worry About Kerberos On Linux Servers? On many Linux Servers, your NFSv4 home directory is mounted without Kerberization . This includes all the Colony Cluster nodes . Cluster jobs may run for weeks or sometimes months. We wouldn\u2019t want you to have to renew your Kerberos Ticket every 10 hours in order to keep your jobs running! Most other Linux Servers, including the Linux terminal servers (rcg-linux-ts1.rcg.sfu.ca & rcg-linux-ts2.rcg.sfu.ca) , will use Kerberization , with the exception of rcg-linux-ts3.rcg.sfu.ca , which we are providing without Kerberization for the convenience of those users who need to run long-term jobs, such as screen or tmux . Q #11: Why Do We Have To Suffer The Inconvenience Of Kerberos On Linux Workstations? Non-Kerberized NFS is inherently insecure , in that anybody with sudo access to a Linux computer can su to another user and read/modify the contents of their home directory. Most of our Linux Servers are locked up in a server room with restricted physical access, and only trusted IT staff have sudo access. This minimizes the risk and therefore we can allow many of these servers to use non-Kerberized NFS . The Linux Workstations, on the other hand, have a more liberal policy with regards to who is granted sudo access. This is because Faculty members often demand sudo access to their own Workstations, and Lab Administrators of various research labs need to install software for their users. In order to accomodate this greater risk, we need to use Kerberized NFSv4 on all the Linux Workstations.", "LINUX COMMAND-LINE KERBEROS QUESTIONS\n\nQ #12: How Do I View My Kerberos Tickets?", "Just type:\n\nklist", "You\u2019ll see something akin to the following:\n\nTicket cache: FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_12345_A6b7C8 Default principal: username@AD.SFU.CA Valid starting Expires Service principal 05/02/20 15:29:10 06/02/20 01:29:10 krbtgt/AD.SFU.CA@AD.SFU.CA renew until 12/02/20 15:27:42 on computers that use a file-based Kerberos Ticket cache . If the computer is using the kernel keyring for kerberos tickets, then you\u2019ll see something akin to the following: Ticket cache: KEYRING:persistent:12345:krb_ccache_4Ybfz5f Default principal: username@AD.SFU.CA Valid starting Expires Service principal 05/02/20 15:29:10 06/02/20 01:29:10 krbtgt/AD.SFU.CA@AD.SFU.CA renew until 12/02/20 15:27:42 In either case, krbtgt is the Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket . You\u2019ll see that it was valid starting at 15:29 on Feb 5th, 2020, and it expires 10 hours later . You\u2019ll also see that it can be renewed for up to a week before you need to get a new Kerberos ticket. However, it must be renewed before it expires . If you wait until after the 10 hours is up, then it is too late! If you have accessed your Linux NFSv4 home directory, then might also see another Kerberos Ticket", ":\n\n02/05/20 16:00:57 02/06/20 02:00:55 nfs/nfs-home.its.sfu.ca@AD.SFU.CA renew until 02/12/20 16:00:51 This is the nfs Kerberos Ticket that allows you to read and write to your home directory located on the nfs-home.its.sfu.ca server. And if you used Kerberos authentication to ssh into a Linux host such as rcg-linux-ts1.rcg.sfu.ca, then you might also see a Kerberos Ticket", "like this:\n\n02/05/20 16:02:26 02/06/20 02:00:55 host/rcg-linux-ts1.rcg.sfu.ca@AD.SFU.CA renew until 02/12/20 16:00:51 This is a host Kerberos Ticket. Q #13: How Do I Renew My Kerberos Tickets Before They Expire?", "Just type:\n\nkinit -R This will renew your Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket . The other tickets will disappear. But that\u2019s okay. New ones will be auto-generated when you access things such as your Linux NFSv4 home directory. Q #14: What Happens If I Forget To Renew My Kerberos Tickets Before They Expire?", "Just type:\n\nkinit and then give your password. You\u2019ll get a new Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket . Q #15: What Happens To My Kerberos Tickets After The Maximum Renewal Period Has Passed? Your Kerberos Tickets cannot be renewed after the maximum renewal period, which is one week .", "But you can always get a new one. Just type:\n\nkinit and then give your password. You\u2019ll get a new Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket . Q #16: Help! I Can No Longer Access My Home Directory! Why? This probably means that your Kerberos Ticket", "expired. A sign of this is that you type:\n\nls", "and the system responds with:\n\nls: cannot open directory '.': Key has expired Another possibility is that your Kerberos Ticket has been destroyed and is no longer present. In which case the system responds with: ls: cannot open directory '.': Permission denied In any case, the fix is straightforward. Don\u2019t panic! Just feed the 3-headed dog . Its favourite food is kinit", ". Simply type:\n\nkinit and then give your password. You\u2019ll get a new Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket . Q #17: Help! My Home Directory Isn\u2019t Available At Login! Why? Normally, a Kerberos Ticket is generated at login time. However, under some circumstances this doesn\u2019t happen. Upon login you might see the following: Could not chdir to home directory /home/user: Key has expired", "or:\n\nCould not chdir to home directory /home/user: Permission denied The first is an indication that you had a Kerberos Ticket but that it has expired. The second is an indication that you don\u2019t have a Kerberos Ticket at all. Either of these error messages will immediately be followed by something like: Loading default RCG module... ENVIRONMENTS/RCG(26):ERROR:102: Tcl command execution failed: set MACHINE_OSVER [exec facter lsbdistdescription] use.own(49):ERROR:102: Tcl command execution failed: if [ module-info mode load ] { if { ! [ file exists $ownmoddir ] } { file mkdir $ownmoddir set null [open $ownmoddir/null w] puts $null \"#%Module########################################################################\" puts $null \"##\" puts $null \"## null modulefile\" puts $null \"##\" puts $null \"proc ModulesHelp { } {\" puts $null \" global version\" puts $null \"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\tThis module does absolutely nothing.\\\"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\tIt's meant simply as a place holder in your\\\"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\tdot file initialization.\\\"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\n\\tVersion \\$version\\n\\\"\" puts $null \"}\" puts $null \"\" puts $null \"module-whatis \\\"does absolutely nothing\\\"\" puts $null \"\" puts $null \"# for Tcl script use only\" puts $null \"set version 3.2.10\" } } This is an indication that the modules environment has failed to load because it couldn\u2019t access your home directory. In any case, the fix is straightforward. Don\u2019t panic! The 3-headed dog is hungry", ". Feed it with:\n\nkinit and then give your password. You\u2019ll get a new Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket . Then log out and log in again. This time, the login should proceed normally and the modules environment will be loaded as usual. Why do these things sometimes happen? It might be that you set up ssh public/private key exchange, in order to log in without giving a password. This may have worked fine in the past, but you can\u2019t generate a Kerberos Ticket without typing your password! Q #18: How Do I Destroy My Kerberos Tickets? Why Would I Want To? To destroy your Kerberos Tickets", ", just type:\n\nkdestroy It is recommended that you do this before logging out of a Linux workstation. If you fail to do this, any valid Kerberos Tickets will remain in the Kerberos Ticket cache . On computers that are using file-based Kerberos Ticket caches, these will be files in /tmp. Anybody with sudo access to the Linux workstation could potentially use these these kerberos ticket cache files to access your home directory! Even if you do kdestroy there are often other Kerberos Ticket caches that get generated by various activities. They may also be stored in /tmp. To be safe, it is best to take a look in /tmp and make sure that there are no files there belonging to you starting with krb5cc_ . If there are, delete them. Q #19: Why Can I Still Read My Home Directory After Destroying My Kerberos Tickets? kdestroy will instantly remove your Kerberos Tickets from a cache file in /tmp/. And rm /tmp/krb5cc_[your_uid]* will remove other Kerberos Tickets you may have. However, the Linux kernel also caches Kerberos Tickets in memory, and it takes a while before the memory cache is cleared. Q #20: How Do I Use Kerberos Authentication To Ssh Into A Linux Host? Assuming you are logged-into a Linux host on the Campus wired network and that you have a valid Kerberos Ticket , you can ssh into any other such Linux host simply via: ssh -K hostname.domainname Using this method, you can log in without having to use a password. The advantage of this method over using ssh public/private key exchange is that your Kerberos Ticket will be propagated to the second host. Q #21: Help! I Run Long-Term Processes On My Linux Workstation And Kerberos Is Locking My Home Directory! If you run long-term processes on your Linux Workstation", ", just type:\n\nThe advantage of this method over using ssh public/private key exchange is that your Kerberos Ticket will be propagated to the second host. Q #21: Help! I Run Long-Term Processes On My Linux Workstation And Kerberos Is Locking My Home Directory! If you run long-term processes on your Linux Workstation and you don\u2019t want to have to keep manually renewing your Kerberos tickets every 10 hours, you can set up a cron job to do it for you. In order to do this, you need to edit your crontab with crontab -e . Before doing so, make sure that your", "EDITOR\n\nenvironment variable is set to your favourite Linux editor. Eg. setenv EDITOR emacs or setenv EDITOR vim , assuming that your shell is tcsh (or export EDITOR=emacs or export EDITOR=vim , if your shell is bash). For example, you could set up the following crontab entry on your Linux computer: MAILTO=username@sfu.ca 30 * * * * /usr/bin/kinit -R This will renew your Kerberos ticket at 30 minutes past every hour of every day. (See man 5 crontab for more information on what the various fields mean.) Note, however, that this will work for at most 1 week , until the renewal period expires, and then one must manually kinit and type one\u2019s password. This is where setting MAILTO=username@sfu.ca comes in handy, because you will receive mail when the cron job fails. (Be sure to use your real username here, not \u201cusername\u201d!) Q #22: The Answer To Q #21 Isn\u2019t Good Enough! I Need My Processes To Run Unattended For Weeks! You can achieve this via a crontab entry and your own private keytab file. Suppose you want to keep your keytab within your home directory in /home/username/myprivatestuff/username.keytab", ". You can create it as follows:\n\nmkdir myprivatestuff chmod 0700 myprivatestuff cd myprivatestuff ktutil addent -password -p username@AD.SFU.CA -k 1 -e aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96 addent -password -p username@AD.SFU.CA -k 1 -e aes128-cts-hmac-sha1-96 (enter your password here when asked) wkt username.keytab q (Make sure you use your real username here, not \u201cusername\u201d!) You can call the directory whatever you want; just make sure it\u2019s private \u2013 that\u2019s what the chmod 0700 is for. If somebody gains access to your keytab file then they can use it to gain access to all your stuff! You can then set up a crontab entry similar to the one above, but instead of using kinit -R", ", you use the following:\n\nMAILTO=username@sfu.ca * */2 * * * /usr/bin/kinit username@AD.SFU.CA -k -t /home/username/myprivatestuff/username.keytab (Again, make sure you use your real username here, not \u201cusername\u201d!) This will get you a new Kerberos Ticket every 2 hours, without having to type a password, by using the credentials stored in your private keytab file. This will work virtually forever * (until the computer reboots), unless for some reason the cron job fails for more than 10 hours and the Kerberos Ticket expires. In this case your home directory becomes unavailable, and the cron job can no longer read the contents of /home/username/privatestuff . It\u2019s a bit of a catch-22, but one can get around it by manually typing kinit and giving one\u2019s password. If the computer is rebooted, then the Kerberos Ticket caches get cleared, resulting in all the Kerberos tickets going away. Subsequent to a reboot, you need to kinit manaully to get a new Kerberos ticket before your cron job will work. * virtually forever unless one changes one\u2019s Campus password, in which case the steps of creating a private keytab need to be redone.", "LINUX GUI KERBEROS QUESTIONS\n\nQ #23: How To I Renew My Kerberos Ticket In The Linux GUI? If you\u2019ve been away from your Linux workstation for a while, the screen saver kicks in and the screen is locked until you type your password. Every time you unlock your screen, a new Kerberos Ticket is generated. If you\u2019ve configured your workstation not to lock the screen (or if you\u2019re using the Linux GUI via", "VNC\n\nwhich doesn\u2019t usually lock the virtual screen), then your Kerberos Ticket will expire after 10 hours and you\u2019ll notice that various things in the GUI will no longer work. You should, however, still be able to open a Linux Terminal. For example, in Ubuntu\u2019s MATE GUI, go to the Applications:System Tools menu and select \u201c MATE Terminal", "It will load with error messages like this:\n\nLoading default RCG module... ENVIRONMENTS/RCG(26):ERROR:102: Tcl command execution failed: set MACHINE_OSVER [exec facter lsbdistdescription] use.own(49):ERROR:102: Tcl command execution failed: if [ module-info mode load ] { if { ! [ file exists $ownmoddir ] } { file mkdir $ownmoddir set null [open $ownmoddir/null w] puts $null \"#%Module########################################################################\" puts $null \"##\" puts $null \"## null modulefile\" puts $null \"##\" puts $null \"proc ModulesHelp { } {\" puts $null \" global version\" puts $null \"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\tThis module does absolutely nothing.\\\"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\tIt's meant simply as a place holder in your\\\"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\tdot file initialization.\\\"\" puts $null \" puts stderr \\\"\\n\\tVersion \\$version\\n\\\"\" puts $null \"}\" puts $null \"\" puts $null \"module-whatis \\\"does absolutely nothing\\\"\" puts $null \"\" puts $null \"# for Tcl script use only\" puts $null \"set version 3.2.10\" } } This is an indication that the modules environment has failed to load because it couldn\u2019t access your home directory. Now feed the 3-headed dog", "by typing:\n\nkinit and then giving your password. You\u2019ll get a new Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket . You can then close the MATE Terminal . If you want to open another one, it should open this time without the error messages. If Kerberos has so badly messed-up your Linux workstation that the GUI is completely frozen and you can\u2019t do anything , then your best option is to ssh -in remotely from another computer and kinit on the command-line. Q #24: Help! I Double-Clicked On My \u201cHome\u201d Folder And Was Denied Access! In Ubuntu\u2019s MATE GUI, you might see something like this (substitute \u201chebron\u201d [that\u2019s me, the author of this documentation] with your username): and in CentOS 6\u2019s GNOME GUI, you might see something like this: The message in MATE about there being no application installed for symbolic link files is a red herring . Do not hit \u2018yes\u2019 to search for an application to open the file! The real problem is that your Kerberos Ticket has expired and therefore the system cannot follow the symbolic link that points to your home directory. The solution is to get a new Kerberos Ticket . See Q#23 for details. Q #25: Help! The Linux GUI Says That My Firefox Profile Is Missing!", "and in CentOS 6\u2019s GNOME GUI, you might see this:\n\nThis most likely means that your Kerberos Ticket has expired, and therefore Firefox can no longer see your home directory. To fix this, you need to get a new Kerberos Ticket . See Q#23 for details.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Linux and Software Environment A Local Lab Administrator is responsible for managing a given lab\u2019s workstations on the research network. They are nominated by the principal investigator of a given lab. Nominations must be approved by the research network manager and the Technical Support manager of the school or department to which the lab belongs. Local Lab Administrators may be granted special administrator privileges to enable them to carry out their management duties. No other lab members may be granted these privileges.", "GRANTING ACCESS\n\nFaculty members may grant access to lab administrators by adding them to the appropriate mailist and waiting ~30 minutes.", "RESPONSIBILITIES\n\nLocal lab administrators are required to refrain from employing their special privileges in any way that would compromise the privacy of other network users or the security of any network hosts. These restrictions include (but are not limited to): Not to access other users\u2019 accounts without authorization Not to install Internet servers or services ( web, ftp, mail, peer-to-peer file sharing, etc.) Not to create local accounts Not to give root or administrative privileges to any other user To install only software with valid licenses provided by FASNET administrators or lab supervisors Use privileged access only when necessary Ensure Windows workstations have up-to-date and correctly configured anti-virus protection Ensure that locally-installed applications are properly configured with up-to-date patches FASNET Local Lab Administrators are responsible for assisting the Research Computing Group in maintaining the security of the research network. In particular, they are required to notify the Research Computing Group: of computer purchases, moves, and other changes of security incidents or unusual activity when resigning as lab administrator Failure to abide by these rules can result in lost of administrative privileges, suspension or lost of account privileges, and other actions by campus security, the department, the university or other legal entities.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Linux and Software Environment SFU has a wide range of licensed software packages available through SFU IT Services.", "SOFTWARE FOR RESEARCH NETWORK WORKSTATIONS\n\nMATLAB and Maple Environment Modules Python LaTeX Compiling Esoteric Software SFU Vault (Retiring Early 2023) Microsoft OneDrive Dropbox Sublime Text Flash and Adobe Reader on Linux", "MATLAB AND MAPLE\n\nIf you want to do serious numerical computations in any scientific or technical field, you probably want to use", "MATLAB\n\n. If you want to do pure mathematics or symbolic manipulation, or just want to explore the beauty of math for pedagogical purposes, you probably want to use Maple .", "ENVIRONMENT MODULES\n\nFor software not installed on your Linux workstation, you can quickly load and run popular software from our collection of environment modules .", "PYTHON\n\nPlease see our Python on Workstations FAQ .", "LATEX\n\nThe Research Computing Group makes a centrally maintained and configured version of TeX Live available on most of its managed Linux computers. TeX Live is a free software distribution of TeX, LaTeX, Metafont, and their associated programs (amstex, bibtex, dvips, latex, mf, pdflatex, pdftex, tex, xdvi, etc.), as well as various macro packages and fonts. For more details, see TeX, LaTeX, Metafont, and friends .", "COMPILING ESOTERIC SOFTWARE\n\nContact us with your software request. Be sure to include a URL where we can find the software\u2019s source code.", "SFU VAULT (RETIRING EARLY 2023)\n\nWarning SFU Vault will be replaced in early 2023 . Please move your files to Microsoft OneDrive at your earliest convenience. On RCG Linux workstations, choose Applications => Accessories => ownCloud Desktop Sync Client . Enter vault.sfu.ca when prompted for a server address. There is also a command-line client. To use it in the same directory the graphical client uses: mkdir ~/ownCloud owncloudcmd --user mysfuid ~/ownCloud https://vault.sfu.ca", "Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting and synchronization service for individuals at SFU. OneDrive is available to all current SFU faculty, staff and students with a Microsoft 365 account . You can access OneDrive on Linux hosts via any web browser . Advanced users may be interested in the command line client ( onedrive ) already installed on most RCG Ubuntu workstations. Further Reading", ":\n\nSFU IT Services OneDrive FAQs", "DROPBOX\n\nYou are free to install Dropbox on your own workstation. No root privileges are required. Instructions: Dropbox Headless Install via command line", "Dropbox is not installed by default because:\n\nServices like Dropbox make it easy to access the same files from anywhere, but they are not \u201centerprise grade\u201d as they cannot be provisioned by SFU administrators, governed by SFU policies, or be integrated with SFU resources like your SFU Computing ID to enforce security and privacy.", "Source:\n\nCloud Computing FAQ, SFU IT Services", "Sublime Text requires a license for continued use. If you have purchased a license, you can download and run it from your home directory without sudo privileges. Free alternatives already installed on our Ubuntu workstations include vim, emacs, Atom, PyCharm, VSCode, and pluma (formerly known as gedit).", "FLASH AND ADOBE READER ON LINUX\n\nAdobe ceased all Linux development in 2014. We cannot provide newer versions of Flash on Linux. Adobe Reader works on CentOS 6 but fails on Ubuntu 16.04 due to", "SSSD\n\n, which we use to provide integration with campus Active Directory. Please use one of the newer, more up-to-date PDF viewers already installed on your Ubuntu system: atril gv okular (with new annotation features ) If you absolutely must have access to Adobe Reader, use X forwarding to run it from another CentOS 6 host in your lab.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Linux and Software Environment PyCharm is installed on all our Ubuntu 16 workstations. Change your shell to bash . Logout, then log back in to ensure you pick up the changes. Download Anaconda . Save it in /local-scratch for faster access. Run the installer by typing bash /local-scratch/Anaconda_installer_whateverversion.sh . When prompted for an installation directory, enter /local-scratch/myanaconda (or any other directory name that does not yet exist). Conda should prompt you to activate it. Answer \u201cyes\u201d. This should not require a password. If you [sudo] asks for your password, you are probably out of disk space or you have exceeded your home directory quota. See our Disk Quota page for troubleshooting tips. Use conda install to obtain OpenCV , cudatoolkit , tensorflow , scikit-learn or whatever else you need . Point PyCharm at Anaconda\u2019s bin/python2.7 or bin/python3.6 (see below). Warning /local-scratch is not backed up . Keep backups of important work in your shared lab file space or SFU Vault .", "TELLING PYCHARM TO USE ANACONDA PYTHON (NEW PROJECTS)\n\nWhen creating a new project, the \u201cSelect Python Interpreter\u201d dialog box will appear. Fill in the path to your Anaconda Python binary, e.g. /local-scratch/anaconda/bin/python2.7 and click [OK].", "TELLING PYCHARM TO USE ANACONDA PYTHON (EXISTING PROJECTS)\n\nWith an existing project open, choose the File menu => Settings\u2026* => Project: YourProject => [gear icon] => **Add Local . Fill in the path to your Anaconda Python binary, e.g. /local-scratch/anaconda/bin/python2.7 and click [", "OK\n\n]. The first time you do this, PyCharm will spend several minutes scanning available modules.", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications Workstation Help Linux and Software Environment to limit security concerns, and to keep workstations relatively uniform and easier to manage at scale.", "I HAVE A SOFTWARE REQUEST\n\nThe software may already be installed (check by running dpkg --list | grep packagname ) or it may be loadable from our collection of environment modules . We welcome your software requests at research-support@sfu.ca . For popular software like MATLAB, Maple, Dropbox, TeamViewer, MATLAB, and LaTeX, see our Software FAQ page .", "I NEED TO \u2018YUM INSTALL\u2019 OR \u2018APT-GET INSTALL\u2019 A PACKAGE\n\nPlease contact research-support@sfu.ca and we will distribute it across all workstations. (If you need a package, chances are your labmates will, too.) If you can\u2019t wait, your lab administrator has sudo privileges and can do this for you.", "I NEED A PYTHON MODULE INSTALLED\n\nPython 2.x and 3.x are available as environment modules . Python libraries can be installed without administrator privileges .", "I NEED SUDOER PRIVILEGES TO COMPILE THIS SOFTWARE\n\nA lot of software can be compiled and run from e.g., /local-scratch without sudo privileges. Most documentation makes the sloppy assumption that you are root so it may require a little extra skill. Instead of running ./configure && sudo make && sudo make install", ", try this instead:\n\n$ ./configure --prefix=/cs/mylab/coolsoftware-1.1 $ make $ make install [now you can run /cs/mylab/coolsoftware-1.1/bin/coolthing]", "CAN I HAVE A VIRTUAL MACHINE WHERE I HAVE ADMINISTRATOR PRIVILEGES?\n\nUnfortunately this would still add a great deal of workstation security risk and management complexity. Virtual machines with sudo privileges are available if you need a machine for application hosting, safely disconnected from research network storage. Please get in touch if you need one provisioned. If you need to do lightweight work in an alternate operating system, use our Windows and Linux terminal servers .", "I HAVE A LEGITIMATE NEED FOR ADMINISTRATOR PRIVILEGES NOT COVERED HERE\n\nGet in touch with us . You may also want to investigate becoming your local lab administrator.", "Web Services WebDAV", "OVERVIEW\n\nYou can connect to your WebDAV space so that it looks like an attached disk on Windows or Macintosh machines. This is useful for dragging files between your desktop and the WebDAV space, and for checking out your folder and sub-folder structure.", "DETAILS\n\nNote that \u201cediting files in place\u201d and \u201cdeleting files by dragging directly to the Recycle or Trash\u201d only work in Windows XP and Mac OS X. Others should drag the files to local desktop space first.", "WINDOWS 7 & WINDOWS VISTA\n\nEnsure that your Windows Vista installation is up-to-date, specifically, this update: Software Update for Web Folders (KB907306) Select \"Computer\" from the Start menu Click \"Map Network Drive\" Click \"Connect to a Web site that you can use to store documents and pictures\" Click Next Click \"Choose a custom network location\" Enter your WebDAV URL (e.g. https://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-name ) and click Next Type in your username and password when asked Give the connection a name (e.d. Global Health Governance WebDAV) and click Next Click Finish. The WebDAV connection will show up in under Network Locations in the Computer window. if you have difficulties connecting to WebDAV using the built-in Windows WebDAV support, consider using a WebDAV client instead - see below", "WINDOWS XP/2000:\n\nClick on My Network Places (in \u201cXP View\u201d for XP users) Click on Add Network Place Click on Add Site Type in your WebDAV URL (e.g. https://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-name ) Type in your username and password when asked if you have difficulties connecting to WebDAV using the built-in Windows WebDAV support, consider using a WebDAV client instead - see below", "WINDOWS, ANY VERSION, USING A NON-MICROSOFT WEBDAV CLIENT\n\nSome Windows-based computers are difficult to use with WebDAV due to the interaction of various patches that affect the built-in WebDAV support. If you have difficulties such as repeated requests for login to WebDAV, even after successfully logging in, freezing transfer windows, or the inability to make a connection to a known-good WebDAV space, try a different client that doesn't rely on the built-in Windows WebDAV support. Some suggestions are below. Though we don't make any particular guarantees or provide official support for these products, these have all been used on campus: Dreamweaver and other web publishing packages typically have their own WebDAV support built in and are compatible with the SFU WebDAV server. If you are using such a package to design your pages, it is often simplest to use the \"remote site\" connection to update your site, which avoids the use of the OS WebDAV support altogether. Free 3rd party clients such as BitKinex operate correctly, and are often faster than the built-in WebDAV support Paid, commercial WebDAV-client implementations such as WebDrive have additional features that may be useful, such as the ability to mount a WebDAV space as a \"drive letter\" in Windows", "MAC OS X (10.4 OR NEWER):\n\nIn the Finder select Go Select Connect to Server Type in your WebDAV URL (e.g. https://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-nam) Type in your username and password when asked Your WebDAV space will show up on your desktop", "MAC OS X (VERSIONS PRIOR TO 10.4):\n\nIn the Finder select Go Select Connect to Server Type in your WebDAV URL (e.g. http://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-name - note that https will not work) Type in your username and password when asked Your WebDAV space will show up on your desktop", "MAC OS 9 AND OLDER:\n\nDownload a free program called Goliath from http://www.webdav.org/goliath In Goliath, type in your your WebDAV URL, username and password", "OVERVIEW\n\nSee our quick summary about checking-in and out your content for WebDAV. Details Web composition packages like Dreamweaver and GoLive contain the concepts of Workgroup Support and Checking files In and Out. This allows shared publishers to avoid conflicts with each other when updating files. For more information consult the Help in your web composition package. Checking Out a file has the effect of locking the file on the WebDAV server. This means that you must Check In the file when you have finished updating it, to remove the lock.", "OVERVIEW\n\nSee our quick summary about checking-in and out your content for WebDAV.", "Web Services WebDAV", "OVERVIEW\n\nYour web pages are automatically backed up hourly, nightly and weekly, into space that is named the same as your WebDAV URL with .snapshot added to the end. For example, https://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-name/.snapshot, or http://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-name/.snapshot (Use https if possible. If it doesn\u2019t work, use http .)", "DETAILS\n\nTry connecting to your \u201c.snapshot\u201d URL via WebDAV in your web composition package. If it works, you\u2019ll see a list of sub-directory names denoted by times (hourly,daily, etc). Browse into the appropriate directory and drag the files you want to recover, over to your local folder that contains your site. If this doesn\u2019t work, connect to your \u201c.snapshot\u201d URL from your desktop as described above. Drag the files you want to recover, to your local disk. On all versions of the Mac OS, including OS X, download a free program called Goliath from http://www.webdav.org/goliath . Connect to your \u201c.snapshot\u201d URL and drag the files you want to recover, to your local disk.", "Web Services WebDAV", "OVERVIEW\n\nCAS is a single sign-on solution (SSO) for the web. With CAS you can access multiple SFU web applications without having to re-enter your Computing ID and password each time. CAS also protects your password information from application developers, as it allows web applications to authenticate you without gaining access to your password. Learn more about CAS .", "DETAILS\n\nYou can use CAS to restrict access to your personal webspace or WebDAV space. Two options are available: CAS for web applications CAS Apache module", "Web Services WebDAV", "OVERVIEW\n\nNeed to control access to your WebDAV spaces? Learn how with the steps below.", "DETAILS\n\nThe mechanisms described in detail here can be used to restrict who can view the pages that you\u2019ve published via WebDAV. You can restrict access to one or more named people, to the members of any SFU mailing list, or to anyone in the SFU community. In all cases, people trying to access the pages will be prompted for a username and password, and they would enter those they use for their SFU e-mail. Alternatively you can restrict access to a username / password combination that you invent (useful if you want a non-SFU person to access your pages.) Adjacent to your pages, you need to set up a file called . htaccess . The AuthUserFile line in .htaccess, if needed, must read AuthUserFile /webdav/web/ foldername /.htpasswd Specify the folder in which your web pages are installed, instead of foldername .", "LIMITING ACCESS TO PAGES INSTALLED ON UNIX\n\nUsing any Unix editor, put a file called .htaccess in the directory that contains the web pages to be restricted. All sub-directories will be similarly restricted. If you have parallel directories to be restricted, put a .htaccess", "file in each of them. Permit it appropriately:\n\nchmod 644 .htaccess", "Add content like this to .htaccess:\n\nExample 1 .htaccess file to always prompt for an account and password AuthType CAS require valid-sfu-user To provide upward computability with earlier ways of protecting access to web pages, you can replace the AuthType CAS withAuthType Basic.", "or this:\n\nExample 2 .htaccess file to allow machines in the sfu.ca domain to access your pages, otherwise prompt for an account and password AuthType CAS allow from sfu.ca require valid-sfu-user Read example 1's notes. The only difference between examples 1 and 2 is the \"allow from .sfu.ca\" line.", "another example:\n\nExample 3 .htaccess file always prompts for an account and password, but only allows access if the connection is from a machine in the sfu.ca domain AuthType CAS allow from sfu.ca require valid-sfu-user satisfy all Read notes from examples 1 and 2. The default for the satisfy line is satisfy any which is why example 2 allows access from an SFU machine or when someone supplies an id and password. In this example, access is only granted if the user is connected from a machine at SFU and they can supply a valid SFU computing id and password.", "one final example:\n\nExample 4 .htaccess file containing multiple conditions AuthType CAS require sfu-user kipling !hist999-d1 require user externaljones This .htaccess file will give access to the members of the hist999-d1 course mailing list, plus to the SFU account kipling (the TA), plus to the invented account externaljones (to allow a colleague at UBC to access your pages).", "Web Services WebDAV", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article details the public and private URLs you will need to manage your WebDAV space.", "PRIVATE URL FOR ACCESSING YOUR SPACE\n\nYou will be sent you a URL to publish to. It will look like this example: https://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-name, or http://webdav.sfu.ca/web/department-name (Use https if possible. If it doesn\u2019t work, use http .) In your web publishing package, follow the instructions on how to set up a WebDAV site. Specify your URL to publish to. Enter the same username and password that you use to access SFU e-mail. If you are asked to set \u201cAuthorization\u201d, set it to Basic.", "PUBLIC URL FOR VIEWING YOUR PAGES\n\nThe URL to give out for public viewing is http://www.sfu.ca/ something which the you will be given upon setup of the space. For example: http://www.sfu.ca/department-name Notice that the public URL is on the www.sfu.ca server. In contrast, the webdav.sfu.ca URL is for your own publishing purposes only.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Delegated Account Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines how to get started with Delegated Account Management by enabling access to your sponsored accounts as an account owner.", "SFU CAMPUS NETWORK IS REQUIRED TO ACCESS THE DAM\n\nTo access this app, you must be connected to SFU campus network (If you are working remotely, connect to SFU VPN beforehand).", "HOW TO ACCESS THE DAM\n\nStep 1. On your browser, visit https://dam.sfu.ca Step 2. Log in with your SFU account. This account should be the sponsor of the sponsored account you wish to provide delegated access. Step 3. Once logged in, you should see a list of sponsored accounts you own on the left side of the app. Select the account you wish to enable delegated access. Step 4. Select \"Enable Delegated Access\" if this is your first time activating delegated access for this sponsored account. Step 5. After enabling delegated access, you can choose one of the following: Add a delegate or manager by inputting their computing ID. Remove a delegate or manager by clicking on the \"trash bin\" icon beside ttheir name. Promote/demote an existing delegate to/from a manager by switching the on/off button under the \"is manager\" column. What types of roles are part of the DAM?", "There are 3 types of roles on DAM:\n\nSponsor : Person or role who is responsible for the account life cycle (request, activation, renewal, deactivation, etc. and associated payment). The primary holder of the account's password. Manager : Person or role who is responsible for managing delegated access to the account (i.e., on/offboarding), and may need to access the account for day-to-day work. Each sponsored account can have more than one manager. Delegate : Person or role who needs to access the account for day-to-day work. Each sponsored account can have more than one delegate. What is delegate access or delegate login? By having delegated access to a sponsored account, you can now access that account (e.g., SFU Mail via web browser) using your own SFU account credentials. This type of login is referred to as delegate login \u2013 i.e., logging into a different account using your own credentials.", "Note:\n\nDelegate login is currently only available to web-based CAS protected services (e.g., SFU Mail via web browser).", "I'VE ADDED DELEGATES TO MY SPONSORED ACCOUNT, HOW DOES DELEGATE LOGIN WORK FOR MY DELEGATES?\n\nOnce you have given delegated access to another individual, they will receive a welcome email with login instructions.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Delegated Account Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to assign a delegate or manager to a sponsored account.", "SFU CAMPUS NETWORK IS REQUIRED TO ACCESS THE DAM\n\nTo access this app, you must be connected to SFU campus network (If you are working remotely, connect to SFU VPN beforehand).", "HOW TO ADD A DELEGATE OR MANAGER\n\nStep 1. On your browser, visit https://dam.sfu.ca Step 2. Log in with your SFU account. This account should be the sponsor of the sponsored account you wish to provide delegated access. Step 3. Once logged in, go to the list of sponsored accounts you own on the left side of the app. Select the account you wish to add a delegate/manager.", "Note:\n\nYou will need to select \"Enable Delegated Access\" if this is your first time activating delegated access for this sponsored account. Step 4. In the \"New delegate\" text box, enter the computing ID of the user you wish to provide delegated access. If you wish to make this user a manager, check off the \"Is manager\" checkbox. Step 5. Click on the \"Add user\" button to add a delegate or manager.", "Note:\n\nThe delegate/manager will then receive an welcome email with instructions on how to use delegate login. You can also direct the delegate/manager to visit the delegate login for share sponsored account page for more information.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Delegated Account Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to promote or demote members on a delegated account.", "SFU CAMPUS NETWORK IS REQUIRED TO ACCESS THE DAM\n\nTo access this app, you must be connected to SFU campus network (If you are working remotely, connect to SFU VPN beforehand).", "HOW TO REMOVE A DELEGATE OR MANAGER\n\nStep 1. On your browser, visit https://dam.sfu.ca Step 2. Log in with your SFU account. This account should be the sponsor of the sponsored account you wish to provide delegated access. Step 3. Once logged in, go to the list of sponsored accounts you own on the left side of the app. Select the account you wish to remove a delegate/manager.", "Note:\n\nYou will need to select \"Enable Delegated Access\" if this is your first time activating delegated access for this sponsored account. Step 4. Locate the delegate/manager you wish to revoke delegated access, and click on the \"trash bin\" icon next to their name.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Delegated Account Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to promote or demote members on a delegated account.", "SFU CAMPUS NETWORK IS REQUIRED TO ACCESS THE DAM\n\nTo access this app, you must be connected to SFU campus network (If you are working remotely, connect to SFU VPN beforehand).", "HOW TO PROMOTE/DEMOTE AN EXISTING DELEGATE TO/FROM A MANAGER\n\nStep 1. On your browser, visit https://dam.sfu.ca Step 2. Log in with your SFU account. This account should be the sponsor of the sponsored account you wish to provide delegated access. Step 3. Once logged in, go to the list of sponsored accounts you own on the left side of the app. Select the account you wish to promote or demote.", "Note:\n\nYou will need to select \"Enable Delegated Access\" if this is your first time activating delegated access for this sponsored account. Step 4. Locate the delegate/manager you wish to change, and switch the on/off button under the \"Is manager\" column to either: Promote a delegate to a manager, or Demote a manager into a delegate.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Delegated Account Management", "A\n\nshared sponsored account is used by one or more individuals, and it is possible that the password or access to the account is shared with or transferred to other individuals (e.g., departmental roles, clubs/associations, and test accounts). To enhance security and minimize the risk of unauthorized access for shared sponsored accounts, delegate login is available to streamline your login experience. This feature allows multiple users to log into same account using their own SFU credentials on", "CAS\n\n-protected web applications.", "Note:\n\nDelegate login is currently only available to web-based", "CAS\n\n-protected services (e.g., SFU Mail via web browser).", "HOW DO I USE DELEGATE LOGIN?\n\nAsk individuals with authorized access to the sponsored account (e.g., sponsor) to add you as a delegate on Delegated Account Management for the sponsored account. Read the welcome email with login instructions. Log into a web-based CAS protected services (e.g., SFU Mail via web browser", "Username:\n\nsponsoredaccountname:yourcomputingID Replace sponsoredaccountname with your sponsored account name, and replace yourcomputingID with your SFU Computing ID (e.g., sfuacc:kipling).", "Password:\n\nThe password for your SFU computing ID", "MFA:\n\nThe MFA code associated with your SFU computing ID", "Note:\n\nYour SFU computing ID must be enrolled in multi-factor authentication to use delegate login.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Delegated Account Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article contains frequently asked questions about Delegated Account Management. General FAQ", "WHAT IS A SHARED SPONSORED ACCOUNT?\n\nA shared sponsored account is a sponsored account that is used by one or more individuals, and it is possible that the password or access to the account is shared with or transferred to other individuals (e.g., departmental roles, clubs/associations, and test accounts). To enhance security and minimize the risk of unauthorized access for shared sponsored accounts, IT Services has introduced the Delegated Access Management app and delegate login . These allows multiple users to log into same account using their own SFU credentials on", "CAS\n\n-protected web applications.", "There are 3 types of roles on DAM:\n\nSponsor : Person or role who is responsible for the account life cycle (request, activation, renewal, deactivation, etc. and associated payment). The primary holder of the account's password. Manager : Person or role who is responsible for managing delegated access to the account (i.e., on/offboarding), and may need to access the account for day-to-day work. Each sponsored account can have more than one manager. Delegate : Person or role who needs to access the account for day-to-day work. Each sponsored account can have more than one delegate.", "WHAT IS DELEGATED ACCESS OR DELEGATE LOGIN?\n\nBy having delegated access to a sponsored account, you can now access that account (e.g., SFU Mail via web browser) using your own SFU account credentials. This type of login is referred to as delegate login \u2013 i.e., logging into a different account using your own credentials.", "Note:\n\nDelegate login is currently only available to web-based CAS protected services (e.g., SFU Mail via web browser).", "A\n\nmanager is responsible for managing delegated access to the account (i.e., on/offboarding), and may need to access the account for day-to-day work. Each sponsored account can have more than one manager. If you are assigned as a manager for a sponsored account, you may add/remove delegates or other managers for that account on the Delegate Account Management (DAM) app at https://dam.sfu.ca .", "I'VE ADDED DELEGATES TO MY SPONSORED ACCOUNT, HOW DOES DELEGATE LOGIN WORK FOR MY DELEGATES?\n\nOnce you have given delegated access to another individual, they will receive a welcome email with login instructions. You can also direct them to the how-to page on delegate login for sponsored account for more details. I AM A DELEGATE FOR ONE OR MORE SPONSORED ACCOUNT(S), IS THERE A LIST THAT SHOWS ALL THE ACCOUNTS I HAVE DELEGATE ACCESS TO? To view a list of delegated sponsored accounts you have access to, follow these steps: Open any web-based CAS protected services (e.g., SFU Mail via web browser ) Log in using your own SFU account credentials with the format below:", "Username:\n\n:yourcomputingID Ensure you have a colon in front and replace yourcomputingID with your SFU Computing ID (e.g., :kipling).", "Password:\n\nThe password for your SFU computing ID", "MFA:\n\nThe MFA code associated with your account Troubleshooting and Technical FAQ", "WHY AM I NOT SEEING MY SPONSORED ACCOUNT ON DAM?\n\nYou must be the sponsor of the sponsored account for your sponsored account to appear on DAM. If you are the current sponsor, and your account is not showing on DAM, the sponsored account information may be out of date. Contact the IT Service Desk or visit", "SFU SAM\n\nto update your sponsored account information. Alternatively, the sponsor can add you as a manager of the sponsored account which will allow you to see the sponsored account on DAM for you to manage delegate access.", "I SEE PERSONAL SPONSORED ACCOUNTS ON DAM, SHOULD I ENABLE DELEGATE ACCESS ON THOSE ACCOUNTS?\n\nIn most cases, you don't need to enable delegate access on those accounts. Enabling delegate access provides additional login methods to the sponsored account which is typically useful for sharing sponsored accounts.", "I AM NOT THE PRIMARY USER OF THE SPONSORED ACCOUNT, JUST A SPONSOR. DO I NEED TO ENABLE DELEGATE LOGIN?\n\nWe recommend talking to the primary user of the sponsored account. For cases where the sponsored account needs to be shared to others or transferred to other users at a relatively fast rate, you may need to enable delegate access and provide manager role on DAM to the primary user for them to manage account access. In other cases where the sponsored account does not need to be shared or transferred, enabling delegate access may be unnecessary.", "DOES ENABLING DELEGATE ACCESS RESTRICT NORMAL LOGIN METHODS?\n\nNo, enabling delegate access means enabling an additional login method to the sponsored account on web-based CAS protected services. All existing logins and the normal method of logging into the sponsored account remain the same.", "WHAT SERVICES DOES DELEGATE LOGIN SUPPORT?\n\nDelegate login is only supported on web-based", "CAS\n\n-protected services that allow sponsored accounts to login. Services that don't allow sponsored accounts, such as FINS and myINFO, cannot use delegate login.", "I HAVE QUESTIONS OR FEEDBACK REGARDING DAM, WHO DO I CONTACT?\n\nIf you have need help or have any question or feedback regarding DAM, please contact the IT Service Desk .", "Overview This article explains how to properly recycle used toner bottles and cartridges. At BURNABY/SURREY Through SFU Facilities Submit a request to Facilities Services to pick up empty toner cartridges. Under the heading \"Services Available,\" select \"Routine Surplus Furniture and Equipment Removal.\" Indicate your department and the location of your building. Through Document Solutions Drop off empty toner cartridges yourself at Document Solutions. Through Ricoh Send the empty toner cartridge back to Ricoh for recycling. A shipping label can be generated and more information can be found on Ricoh's toner bottle and cartridge recycling page. At VANCOUVER Through Ricoh Send the empty toner cartridge back to Ricoh for recycling. A shipping label can be generated and more information can be found on Ricoh's toner bottle and cartridge recycling page. Through Document Solutions via Intercampus Mail Departments can box up old toner cartridges and put it in intercampus mail. They will also place a label that is provided by Document Solutions on the package to: SFU Document Solutions, 8888 University Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6 If you do not have the label that is provided by Document Solutions, address the package to: SFU Document Solutions, 8888 University Dr, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6. Related Articles (1) Replace Printer Toner Learn how to replace the printing toner for SFU Print devices.", "Overview This article explains how to connect to the", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nand eduroam networks on your mobile devices. Students, faculty and staff should use", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\n, the secure wireless network on campus. You also have access to wireless services at cooperating institutions in Canada, US, Asia and Europe using eduroam . Guests to SFU campus who don't have an SFU computing ID can create a temporary account and connect to SFUNET-GUEST. Details Phones and Tablets iphone/ipad Open Settings on your device. Select Wi-Fi. Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam. Enter your computingID@sfu.ca and your SFU password. Then tap Join. Trust the SFU certificate by tapping Trust. Android Devices", "Device settings will vary from manufacturer to manufacturer:\n\nOpen Wi-Fi Settings. Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam. Enter the following information based on the settings you're prompted for: Wi-Fi Configuration Settings Authentication Protocol Choose EAP method", "PEAP\n\nPhase 2 Authentication MSCHAPv2 CA certificate", "SFUNET-SECURE_WPA\n\nOnline Certificate Status Request Status Domain secure.sfu.ca Anonymous Identity Leave blank Identity computingID@sfu.ca Password SFU password Desktop and Laptop Computers mac Open System Settings. Open Network Settings. Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam. Enter your computingID@sfu.ca in the Username field. Enter your SFU password in the Password box. Check the box to Remember this network. Click Join. Click Connect. If asked to trust a certificate, tick the box to always trust the certificate.", "WINDOWS\n\nOn the bottom task bar, click on the Wireless icon. Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam from the list of networks. Ensure the Connect automatically box is checked . Click the Connect button. When prompted, enter your SFU computingID@sfu.ca and SFU password and click", "OK\n\n. You may be prompted to verify the servers identity. If so, click Connect . Windows will restart the authentication setup if Connect is not clicked quickly. If so, repeat 5 again. You should now be connected to", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam . You should now automatically connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses. If you still can't connect, try the advanced method to connect: Advanced Method In some cases, it has been found the default method Windows 10/11uses to configure WPA2-Enterprise networks does not work consistently. If you are having trouble connecting or staying connected to", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam , try the following procedure to set your connection up using this advanced method. Deleting existing Wi-Fi profiles Open the search dialogue (move mouse to top-right of screen, select ). Enter the term Command Prompt . Click on the Command Prompt icon until a black window appears Type the following on command line (replace", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nwith eduroam", "connections as appropriate):\n\nnetsh wlan delete profile name=\"SFUNET-SECURE\" Setting up the connection manually Open your control panel, or right click on the wireless icon in your task bar. Choose Open Network and Sharing Center Select Set up a new connection or network. Select Manually connect to a wireless network. Enter", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nas the network name. Choose WPA2-Enterprise as the security type. Ensure Start this connection automatically is selected Click Next . You should be presented with a request to Change connection settings . Select this option. Configuring the security settings for the connection Click the Security Tab. Change the network authentication method to Microsoft: EAP-TTLS . Ensure that Remember my credentials for this connection each time I'm logged on is selected. Click the Advanced Settings button. Check the Specify authentication mode and choose User authentication. Click Save credentials and enter your computing ID and password. Click", "OK\n\nand close all open configuration dialogues. Connect to the", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam network you just configured. You will likely be prompted to trust a certificate before proceeding. Click Connect . You should now automatically connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses.", "Note:\n\nThis guide is to serve as a best-effort attempt to provide the required configuration steps to connect to the SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks using a vanilla install of Ubuntu. Because of the various levels of hardware, software and driver support of Linux-based devices, your mileage may vary. Open the System menu. Select Preferences. Select Network Connections from the menu. Click on the Wireless tab. Select the Wireless Networks tab. Ensure that", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam is not already in the Networks list. If so, remove it. Click the Add button.", "Enter the following configuration details (settings are case-sensitive!):\n\nConnection Name \"SFUNET-SECURE\" or \"eduroam\"", "SSID\n\n\"SFUNET-SECURE\" or \"eduroam\" Mode \"Client\" or \"Infrastructure\"", "BSSID\n\nLeave blank MAC Address Leave blank", "MTU\n\nAutomatic Click the Wireless Security tab.", "Enter the following configuration details (settings are case-sensitive):\n\nSecurity WPA & WPA2 Enterprise Authentication Tunneled TLS Anonymous Identity Your computingID@sfu.ca CA Certificate Leave blank Inner Authentication", "PAP\n\nUsername Your computingID@sfu.ca Password Your password If you are prompted to use a CA Certificate, you can do so by downloading the Thawte Premium Server CA certificate (you will have to do this before you connect to wireless). You may also choose to proceed without checking the certificate. You should now be connected to the SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses. Other Devices and Operating Systems Other Devices For any device that is capable of secure wireless and WiFi 5", "(WPA2-Enterprise), here are the basic requirements to connect:\n\nWireless Configuration Settings Information required Enter or Select Network SSID SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam Authentication Method WPA2 (sometimes called WPA2-Enterprise) Data Encryption Method", "AES\n\nEAP Type PEAP or EAP-TTLS Authentication Protocol MS-CHAPv2 for PEAP, PAP for EAP-TTLS Username computingID@sfu.ca use SFUNET with Older devices If you have an older device and you're having trouble connecting to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks, you can try to connect to SFUNET instead. SFUNET is an older, insecure wireless network meant for basic connectivity. Currently, there are no traffic restrictions and all wireless devices should be supported.", "To connect to SFUNET:\n\nOpen your device's Wi-Fi settings and select", "SFUNET\n\n. The captive Wi-Fi portal should appear. Enter your SFU computing ID and password into the web portal. Then select Log In . Guest Access If you don't have an SFU computing ID, you can still connect to a wireless network by using the SFUNET-GUEST network. Create an account and connect to SFUNET-GUEST Open your device's Wi-Fi's settings. Connect to SFU-Guest . A captive portal will appear with the next steps to proceed. After reading the terms and conditions, tap on Agree and Continue. Tap on Create a Temporary Account. Enter your name, email address, and phone number. Then tap on Create Account. On the login page, enter the corresponding email address and password received via SMS. Troubleshooting connection issues If you're having difficulty connecting to the Wi-Fi, you can try the following: Verify your username and password. You should be able to sign goSFU or SFU Mail with the same credentials Remove the Wi-Fi profile or forget network settings Restart your device Ensure the latest wireless drivers are installed (macOS includes drivers as part of the operating system updates). Drivers make a significant difference to the performance of your wireless connection. You can find the newest available driver for your wireless device from the vendor's website. Disable any power saving features on the wireless card. Use devices that support at minimum WiFi 5 (802.11ac) on the 5ghz band. Use the Wi-Fi Certified Product Finder to determine if your device supports WiFi 5. Turn off \"Private Wi-Fi Address\" or \"Limit IP Address Tracking\" features (iOS) Get help from IT Services If you're still having difficulty connecting to Wi-Fi, please visit one of our IT Service Centres", "Burnaby:\n\nP9300 or WMC 2262", "HC1300\n\nIf you have any other questions about Wi-Fi, please submit a ticket: Submit a ticket Overview This article explains how to connect to the", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nand eduroam networks on your mobile devices. Students, faculty and staff should use", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\n, the secure wireless network on campus. You also have access to wireless services at cooperating institutions in Canada, US, Asia and Europe using eduroam .", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\neduroam", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\neduroam Guests to SFU campus who don't have an SFU computing ID can create a temporary account and connect to SFUNET-GUEST.", "Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your Android device. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . Details", "Note:\n\nConfiguration settings will vary from manufacturer to manufacturer. Open your Wi-Fi Settings on the phone Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam Enter the following information based on the settings you're prompted for: Wi-Fi Configuration Settings Authentication Protocol Choose EAP method", "PEAP\n\nPhase 2 Authentication MSCHAPv2 CA certificate", "SFUNET-SECURE_WPA\n\nOnline Certificate Status Request Status Domain secure.sfu.ca Anonymous Identity Leave blank Identity computingID@sfu.ca Password SFU password", "If the above does not connect, try the following:\n\nSelect Do Not Verify for Certification or CA certificate Failure will result from selecting either", "REQUIRE\n\noption for Certification or CA certificate Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your Android device. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . automatic setup process is preferred", "Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your iOS or iPadOS device. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . Details Open the Settings app on your device Select Wi-Fi Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam Enter your computingID@sfu.ca and your SFU password. Then tap Join Trust the SFU certificate by tapping Trust You should now be connected to the SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses. Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your iOS or iPadOS device. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . automatic setup process is preferred", "Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your macOS computer. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . Details Open System Preferences Open Network settings Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam Enter your computingID@sfu.ca in the Username box Enter your SFU password in the Password box Check the box to Remember this network Click Join Click Connect If asked to trust a certificate, tick the box to always trust the certificate. You should now automatically connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses when in range. Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your macOS computer. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . automatic setup process is preferred", "Overview This article explains how to manually connect your Windows computer to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks. Windows 7 and lower are not supported. Details", "SIMPLE METHOD\n\nOn the bottom task bar, click on the Wireless icon. Select", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam from the list of networks. Ensure the Connect automatically box is checked . Click the Connect button. When prompted, enter your SFU computingID@sfu.ca and SFU password and click", "OK\n\n. You may be prompted to verify the servers identity. If so, click Connect . Windows will restart the authentication setup if Connect is not clicked quickly. If so, repeat 5 again. You should now be connected to", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam . You should now automatically connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses when in range.", "ADVANCED METHOD\n\nIn some cases, it has been found the default method Windows 10/11uses to configure WPA2-Enterprise networks does not work consistently. If you are having trouble connecting or staying connected to", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam , try the following procedure to set your connection up using this advanced method. Deleting existing Wi-Fi profiles Open the search dialogue (move mouse to top-right of screen, select ). Enter the term Command Prompt . Click on the Command Prompt icon until a black window appears Type the following on command line (replace", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nwith eduroam", "connections as appropriate):\n\nnetsh wlan delete profile name=\"SFUNET-SECURE\" Setting up the connection manually Open your control panel, or right click on the wireless icon in your task bar. Choose Open Network and Sharing Center Select Set up a new connection or network. Select Manually connect to a wireless network. Enter", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nas the network name. Choose WPA2-Enterprise as the security type. Ensure Start this connection automatically is selected Click Next . You should be presented with a request to Change connection settings . Select this option. Configuring the security settings for the connection Click the Security Tab. Change the network authentication method to Microsoft: EAP-TTLS . Ensure that Remember my credentials for this connection each time I'm logged on is selected. Click the Advanced Settings button. Check the Specify authentication mode and choose User authentication. Click Save credentials and enter your computing ID and password. Click", "OK\n\nand close all open configuration dialogues. Connect to the", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam network you just configured. You will likely be prompted to trust a certificate before proceeding. Click Connect . You should now automatically connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses when in range. Overview This article explains how to manually connect your Windows computer to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks. Windows 7 and lower are not supported.", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "SUPPORTED OPERATION SYSTEMS (OS)\n\nWindows Windows 10 Enterprise, 64-bit Mac macOS 14, \"Sonoma\" macOS 13, \"Ventura\" macOS 12, \"Monterey\"", "ORDERING SUPPORTED DEVICES\n\nPlease refer to the SFU Enterprise eStore for details.", "REMOTE DESKTOP\n\nYou can access managed Windows devices remotely using SFU VPN service.", "TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION\n\nAccess our technical documentation. Technical documentation is only accessible to IT administrators. Log in to Confluence Frequently Asked Questions about Managed Windows Devices", "HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE TO ENROLL MY COMPUTER IN MEM?\n\nGenerally, when IT staff enrol your device, Windows will restart 2 (or in rare cases 3) times over about a 15 minute period. Installation of the Endpoint Manager client and services will continue in the background and you should be able to leave campus in less than 2 hours. This may take longer if large software packages are pending.", "WILL MY WORK BE IMPACTED?\n\nInstallation will require a couple of reboots on your computer when the client is first installing. After that the installation will continue to run in the background without niceable impact to the user.", "IF I HAVE A LAPTOP DO I NEED TO BRING IT ON CAMPUS?\n\nYes. At this time, it is required to bring it to campus to do the initial install Endpoint Manager. Once this is accomplished, it will function off-campus.", "HOW WOULD IT BE CLEANED FOR COVID-19 SAFETY MEASURE?\n\nWe can usually have Endpoint Manager install if you are in your office or otherwise on campus and can trigger the process and monitor it remotely. In the case you do need to come in to our offices: You are requested to wear a mask when visiting the IT Services office We recommend IT support staff use one of the following methods to service your laptop: use RDP (remote desktop) or TeamViewer use an external keyboard and mouse use gloves and wipe down the keyboard and trackpad with alcohol-based wipes when receiving and returning the device. this ensures safety from contaminated surfaces, and alcohol-based wipes are safe for the electronics ( do not use Windex or other water-based cleaners on your laptop! )", "PRIVACY CONCERNS - WHAT INFORMATION DOES ENDPOINT MANAGER COLLECT?\n\nThe IT Services implementation of Endpoint Manager has been customized to collect only the data needed to support computers running a Microsoft Windows operating system. This information includes: Hardware Specifications Installed Applications & Usage Services Running Available Software Updates Local User Accounts and Login/Logout Timestamps Security Status (Firewall, encryption, etc) Connected Peripheral Devices No personal information is collected, such as the contents or names of personal files (documents, email, etc) or any browsing history. All data is stored on-premises as of July 2020. (If you have roaming profiles for backup on your desktop or backup on your laptop, these files are stored on SFU's servers separately from Endpoint Manager)", "IS MY COMPUTER ENROLLED IN ENDPOINT MANAGER?\n\nTo find out if your computer is enrolled, look for the Endpoint Manager object found in the Windows Control Panel. Additionally, you may look for \u201cSoftware Center\u201d in your Windows Start menu.", "WHAT IS SOFTWARE CENTER?\n\nThe Software Center application is similar to a mobile device app store (similar to Managed Software Center on University Macs), but it provides customized content for university Windows systems. This content includes access to University approved software, maintenance task scheduling, support options, and other documentation.", "CAN I CONNECT TO SOFTWARE CENTER WHEN I AM OFF-CAMPUS?\n\nBeginning October 26, 2020 , MEM clients are able to take configuration and software updates from off-campus. Devices that have not been on campus since this date must connect to the campus network one last time in order to pick up this new policy change. The SFU VPN service is adequate for performing this from off-campus. See your local IT support staff for more information.", "UPDATING SOFTWARE\n\nThe Software Center gives you the flexibility of choosing which applications to update and when to update them. Additonally, the Options tab allows clients to choose \"Business Hours\" when updates should not run in order to minimize interruptions. The software install deadline is clearly shown. After this date, clients are given a couple days to defer, but after this point all updates are forced to install.", "HOW CAN I CHOOSE WHEN UPDATES RUN?\n\nSetting updatea auto-install options Open Software Center and click the \"Options\" tab on the left. Here you may specify \"Business Hours\" which is effectively the times that MEM may not install software and updates. Please choose a reasonable time frame. All software deployments have a deadline of 14 days from notifiaction. Failing to allow Windows to apply updates within this two week period will result in a forced install that may interrupt your work day!", "HOW DOES ENDPOINT MANAGER WORK?\n\nThe Endpoint Manager infrastructure consists of several high-performance, redundant servers which provide a database of computer information and data storage for programs, applications, and operating system images for deployment to end-user computers. Endpoint Manager uses a small software utility known as an \"agent\" to communicate with the servers. This agent inventories hardware specifications, software installation information and provides for the automated installation of software updates and security patches. Included with the agent is another application called \"Software Center\", which will be described below. All client/server communication is encrypted by a certificate pair configured when the agent is installed.", "WHAT CHANGES DOES THE INSTALLATION OF ENDPOINT MANAGER MAKE TO A PC?\n\nEndpoint Manager installs the agent to your PC. The agent runs in the background and will not interfere with the operation of your computer. Additionally, Endpoint Manager installs the Software Center application and the Endpoint Manager control panel object.", "WILL I STILL HAVE ADMINISTRATIVE ACCESS TO MY PC?\n\nDevice management doesn't preclude ownership nor administration of the PC. Managed Windows at SFU adopts best practices for security, patching and configuration options as specified by your IT unit. There will be no automatic changes to the privileges of your user account by enrolling in Endpoint Manager. Your local IT support will contact you if changes are to be made.", "WHAT POLICIES ARE ENFORCED?\n\nFirewall, security, and Applocker policies are default on all managed Windows systems at SFU. Additional distribution of policies is the responsibility of individual local IT manager. If you have any questions about what policies are enforced, please contact your local IT support. IT Services does provide and maintain a large catalog of software, maintenance tasks, and other links in Software Center. The Software Center catalog may also be supplemented by your local IT support, with support for self-service items (for example, Adobe Acrobat Pro to users with SFU Adobe Enterprise IDs). Frequently Asked Questions about Managed Mac Devices", "WHAT IS A MANAGED MAC?\n\nThe Endpoint Manager infrastructure consists of several high-performance, redundant servers which provide a database of computer information and data storage for programs, applications, and operating system images for deployment to end-user computers. Endpoint Manager uses a small software utility known as an \"agent\" to communicate with the servers. This agent inventories hardware specifications, software installation information and provides for the automated installation of software updates and security patches. Included with the agent is another application called \"Software Center\", which will be described below. All client/server communication is encrypted by a certificate pair configured when the agent is installed.", "WILL I LOSE CONTROL OF MY MAC?\n\nNot necessarily. The understanding is that we work on the computer (on your behalf) so that you can focus on your work. Management does not preclude ownership nor administration of the workstation. Some owners of managed Macs are administrators on their own computers. However, most software or configuration requests can be handled quite quickly and readily (usually faster than most users can obtain the software themselves).", "DOES THIS MEAN I WON'T BE ABLE TO INSTALL PROGRAMS?\n\nPursuant to the previous point, it is still possible for many classes of users to install their own versions of software, either from the App Store or via other means. Additionally, it is always possible to install applications in your home ~/Applications folder to meet your organizational goals. Don't see software that you need? Ask for it , we can usually assign new software titles in minutes.", "WHICH PROGRAMS DO YOU INSTALL?\n\nThe list is extensive, and ever changing. Suffice to say (with a few exceptions) that any managed Mac gains access to almost ALL the software the University has license for.", "DO YOU BACKUP ALL MY FILES?\n\nI.T. Services is slowly rolling out a backup service for all administrative staff managed Macs. Talk to your local support person for more information.", "I DON'T WANT TO BE MANAGED, CAN I STILL RECEIVE SUPPORT?\n\nThe managed Mac team at Simon Fraser University has an ongoing committment to ensuring a safe, reliable and productive computing environment on campus. To this end, we try and respond to all reasonable requests for help. For more information, simply email mac-help@sfu.ca Related Articles (1) Upgrade Your Device to Windows 11 Managed devices upgrading from Windows 10 to Windows 11.", "Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your Linux (Ubuntu) computer. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . Details", "Note:\n\nThis guide is to serve as a best-effort attempt to provide the required configuration steps to connect to the SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks using a vanilla install of Ubuntu. Because of the various levels of hardware, software and driver support of Linux-based devices, your mileage may vary. Open the System menu Select Preferences Select Network Connections from the menu Click on the Wireless tab Select the Wireless Networks tab Ensure that", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nor eduroam is not already in the Networks list. If so, remove it Click the Add button", "Enter the following configuration details (settings are case-sensitive!):\n\nConnection Name \"SFUNET-SECURE\" or \"eduroam\"", "SSID\n\n\"SFUNET-SECURE\" or \"eduroam\" Mode \"Client\" or \"Infrastructure\"", "BSSID\n\nLeave blank MAC Address Leave blank", "MTU\n\nAutomatic Click the Wireless Security tab", "Enter the following configuration details (settings are case-sensitive):\n\nSecurity WPA & WPA2 Enterprise Authentication Tunneled TLS Anonymous Identity Your computingID@sfu.ca CA Certificate Leave blank Inner Authentication", "PAP\n\nUsername Your computingID@sfu.ca Password Your password If you are prompted to use a CA Certificate, you can do so by downloading the Thawte Premium Server CA certificate (you will have to do this before you connect to wireless). You may also choose to proceed without checking the certificate. You should now be connected to the SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam networks across all SFU campuses. Overview This article explains how to manually connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on your Linux (Ubuntu) computer. In most cases, the automatic setup process is preferred . automatic setup process is preferred", "Overview This article provides the basic requirements to connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on a device that is not covered by the automatic wireless setup guide . Details For any device that is capable of secure wireless and WiFi 5", "(WPA2-Enterprise), here are the basic requirements to connect:\n\nWireless Configuration Settings Information required Enter or Select Network SSID SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam Authentication Method WPA2 (sometimes called WPA2-Enterprise) Data Encryption Method", "AES\n\nEAP Type PEAP or EAP-TTLS Authentication Protocol MS-CHAPv2 for PEAP, PAP for EAP-TTLS Username computingID@sfu.ca Overview This article provides the basic requirements to connect to SFUNET-SECURE and eduroam networks on a device that is not covered by the automatic wireless setup guide . automatic wireless setup guide", "Overview This article explains how to connect to the SFU-Guest network on campus. Students, staff, faculty, and others with computing ID's should connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam using the automatic setup process . Details", "Note:\n\nSFUNET-Guest accounts expire after 24 hours and guests will need to repeat the account creation process.", "To receive the SMS containing the temporary password:\n\nDevice language must be set to English SIM card must be registered with a Canadian phone number", "CREATING AN ACCOUNT AND CONNECTING TO SFU-GUEST\n\nOpen your device's Wi-Fi's settings Connect to SFU-Guest . A captive portal will appear with the next steps to proceed After reading the terms and conditions, tap on Agree and Continue Tap on Create a Temporary Account Enter your name, email address, and phone number. Then tap on Create Account On the login page, enter the corresponding email address and password received via SMS Overview This article explains how to connect to the SFU-Guest network on campus. Students, staff, faculty, and others with computing ID's should connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam using the automatic setup process . connect to SFUNET-SECURE or eduroam using the automatic setup process", "Infrastructure Data Centre Services SFU Cloud", "OVERVIEW\n\nBrowse the frequently asked questions about SFU Cloud. SFU Cloud FAQs", "HOW IS SFU CLOUD ACCESSED?\n\nSFU Cloud has a web-based portal for the deployment and management of your systems. In order to access the portal submit a TDX ticket to be enrolled in the SFU Cloud Canvas course. Upon successful completion of the course, a request will be made to the relevant Business group owner to approve the request, then access will be provided.", "HOW DO I ACCESS MY VIRTUAL SYSTEMS?\n\nYou can reach your systems from anywhere remotely and securely using Remote Desktop or SSH depending on the operating system of your virtual machine.", "CAN I HAVE EXTERNAL CONTRACTORS ACCESSING MY RESOURCES IN SFU CLOUD?\n\nYes, if they have SFU sponsored accounts they can access the portal and the systems.", "IS THERE A CHARGE INVOLVED?\n\nNo", "ARE THE SYSTEMS SECURE?\n\nYes, the systems are protected by managed multi-layer firewalls plus multi-factor authentication through IT Services. The systems are patched on a regular basis to keep them secure.", "CAN I CHOOSE THE OPERATING SYSTEM FOR MY VIRTUAL MACHINE?\n\nYes, we have a choice of operating systems that should satisfy most requirements.", "Infrastructure Data Centre Services SFU Cloud Features & Benefits of SFU Cloud Elastic Increase or decrease capacity within seconds. Provision one or several virtual machines simultaneously. Eliminate wastage of reserved capacity by changing CPU, memory, disk and network on-demand on a running VM. Provides developers the tools to build highly available applications and protect them from common failure scenarios. Owner Controlled Have complete control of your systems including full administrative access and the ability to interact with the systems as you would with any traditionally-hosted physical machines. Shut down or pause any system while retaining the data, and use the user portal to restart the same instance back to operation. Access server consoles and take point-in-time snapshots to confidently apply server changes. Hosting Choices Deploy multiple operating systems Apply software packages to shape the platform that suits your business application needs. Define and configure memory, CPU and disk size that is optimal for your application and change configurations dynamically Institutionally Integrated Tightly integrated and embedded in the SFU Data Centre allowing systems to leverage SFU\u2019s high-bandwidth networking and advanced data protection. Highly Reliable Provides a highly redundant and reliable environment that is in-line with the SFU Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity plan. Critical systems are geo-replicated to a satellite data centre providing backup against a major disaster. Systems are backed up daily and provide RTOs that are in-line with IT Services\u2019 backup and restore retention policy and recovery objectives. Secure Integrates with SFU Federated Authentication for secure web service access and subsequent system access. Keeps your workloads and data isolated and safe from external threats and other tenants. Complies with provincial and federal privacy laws. Economical SFU Cloud passes on to you the monetary benefits of running in-house infrastructure at scale in the most optimal matter Leveraging highly skilled IT", "and subsequent system access. Keeps your workloads and data isolated and safe from external threats and other tenants. Complies with provincial and federal privacy laws. Economical SFU Cloud passes on to you the monetary benefits of running in-house infrastructure at scale in the most optimal matter Leveraging highly skilled IT professionals Providing disciplined hardware and software acquisition practices, combined with favorable pricing available to educational institutions. Deployment and Management of Virtual Assets User manual for deploying virtual machines and managing virtual assets via SFU Cloud Portal .", "Overview This article provides the account, security, and system requirements, installers, and instructions to set up and connect to SFU VPN. Account and Security Requirements System Requirements Download and install FortiClient VPN Configure the VPN Connection Connect to SFU VPN Troubleshoot your VPN connection SFU VPN FAQ's Details 1. Account and Security Requirements", "SFU VPN is immediately available to:\n\nStaff and Faculty Graduate Students enrolled in one or more courses Undergraduate Students enrolled in eligible programs or courses, such as Computing Science or Engineering Additionally, your account must be enrolled in Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA ). Requesting access If you require access to SFU VPN for work or research purposes, your supervisor can submit a request", "with the following information:\n\nComputing ID to grant access Reason for access Duration of access 2. System Requirements As of February 24, 2025, only FortiClient VPN version 7.2.x or higher is compatible with SFU VPN. Windows Windows 10 or 11 (64 bit) Intel processor or equivalent (ARM-based not supported)", "2 GB RAM\n\n1 GB free hard disk space", "macOS 12.0 or newer Intel or M-series processors", "1 GB RAM\n\n1 GB free hard disk space", "LINUX\n\nUbuntu 18.04 or newer; Red Hat 7.4 or newer; CentOS Stream 8, 7.4 or newer; Fedora 36 and later With KDE or GNOME desktop environments Intel processor or equivalent", "512 MB RAM\n\n600 MB free hard disk space The full list of system requirements can be found in the FortiClient Administration Guide (7.2.0) . 3. Download and install the FortiClient VPN Download and open the corresponding installer. Then follow the on-screen instructions: VPN for Windows Step-by-step installation, configuration, and connection instructions for Windows VPN for Mac Step-by-step installation, configuration, and connection instructions for Mac", "NOTE:\n\nIndividuals using macOS 15.0 (Sequoia) or newer will need to do the following after installing FortiClient VPN: Additional Configuration Steps To grant FortiClient the necessary permissions to run on your computer: Open the System Settings app Select General Open Login Item & Extensions Scroll down the Extensions section and select the \"i\" in Network Extensions Toggle on the FortiTray.app to grant it access. Then select Done VPN for Linux (.rpm) Step-by-step installation, configuration, and connection instructions for Linux Important Instructions for Ubuntu 24.04+ - Additional packages required VPN for Linux (.deb) 4. Configure the SFU VPN connection Open the FortiClient VPN application. On the welcome screen, select \" I acknowledged... \" and then select I accept . Select Configure VPN and configure the connection as follows. Then select Save . Configuration for SFU VPN VPN Type", "SSL-VPN\n\nConnection Name", "SFU VPN\n\nRemote Gateway vpn.its.sfu.ca Customize Port Checked Port Number 10443 Client Certificate None 5. Connect to SFU VPN Enter your SFU Computing ID and password then select Connect . Enter your MFA code (Windows: Answer; Mac: OTP passcode; Linux: Token) when prompted. If the connection is successful, you'll see a confirmation screen with the VPN connection details: To close your VPN connection, select Disconnect . Make sure to connect to the VPN every time it's needed. The VPN disconnects when your computer is idle or sleeps. Unlike Wi-Fi, it does not re-connect automatically. 6. Troubleshoot your VPN connection If you're having difficulty connecting to SFU VPN, see Troubleshooting connection issues with SFU VPN for common errors and resolutions before submitting a ticket. 7. SFU VPN FAQs 1. Can I use SFU VPN to bypass government or service restrictions? Unlike commercial solutions, SFU Virtual Private Network (VPN) does", "NOT\n\nby-pass travel restrictions or re-route traffic. For instance, SFU VPN won't help you access websites blocked by national firewalls. 2. Can I use another VPN app to connect to SFU VPN? Only FortiClient VPN is supported by IT Services. Other VPN apps may not comply with the university's security and privacy standards. 3. WHICH services require VPN for access? myINFO ,", "FINS\n\n, eTRACS , and Hyperion are a few of the resources that are only available while connected to the SFU on-campus network or on SFU VPN. Many online resources will be unaffected by this (such as Canvas, SFU Mail, Zoom, SFU Vault).", "4. CAN I LOG IN TO SFU VPN USING A SPONSORED / DEPARTMENTAL ACCOUNT?\n\nWe recommend logging in to SFU VPN using your personal SFU account , and accessing any sponsored accounts once you are connected to the VPN. For users who only have access to sponsored accounts for personal use (i.e., your sponsored account is only used by a specific individual, where the password and access to the account would never be shared with or transferred to others.), you can enroll in SFU's Multi-factor Authentication and contact the IT Service Desk for access to the VPN.", "5. WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SFU VPN AND REMOTE DESKTOP CONNECTIONS?\n\nSFU VPN is a way for your own devices to securely connect with the SFU campus network without needing an on-campus workstation (such as an office PC). This lets your device directly connect to shared folders and other resources while off-campus. With a remote desktop connection (also known as RDP), you remotely control an on-campus workstation by sending mouse clicks, movements and other desktop commands over the internet. RDP is a great way to access your on-campus desktop but comes with the technical overhead of maintaining an on-campus workstation.", "6. I MANAGE CREDIT CARD INFORMATION AT SFU. DOES SFU VPN MEET PCI DATA SECURITY STANDARDS?\n\nNo, SFU VPN is not PCI compliant. If you manage credit card information at SFU and are using SFU VPN, please follow SFU's best practices . If you have questions or concerns, please email pci@sfu.ca . If you have a question about SFU VPN but don't see it here, please contact the Service Desk. Submit a ticket Overview This article provides the account, security, and system requirements, installers, and instructions to set up and connect to SFU VPN. Account and Security Requirements System Requirements Download and install FortiClient VPN Configure the VPN Connection Connect to SFU VPN Troubleshoot your VPN connection SFU VPN FAQ's Account and Security Requirements Account and Security Requirements System Requirements System Requirements Download and install FortiClient VPN Download and install FortiClient VPN Configure the VPN Connection Configure the VPN Connection Connect to SFU VPN Connect to SFU VPN Troubleshoot your VPN connection Troubleshoot your VPN connection SFU VPN FAQ's SFU VPN FAQ's", "OVERVIEW\n\nThe SFU VPN service will provide you with secure access to any shared drives spaces you regularly access while on campus. For example, your departmental file shares, Y-drive, or other departmental folders. To access your shared drive space, you will need to be connected to the SFU VPN service and then invite (mount) the shared drive to your device. This how-to guide will walk you through that process. Details", "WINDOWS\n\nSFU VPN how-to Access shared drives Windows", "MAC\n\nSFU VPN how-to Access shared drives MacOS", "LINUX\n\nSFU VPN how-to Access shared drives Linux", "OVERVIEW\n\nThe SFU VPN service will provide you with secure access to any shared drives spaces you regularly access while on campus. For example, your departmental file shares, Y-drive, or other departmental folders. To access your shared drive space, you will need to be connected to the SFU VPN service and then invite (mount) the shared drive to your device. This how-to guide will walk you through that process.", "Overview This article describes the troubleshooting steps you can take if you're having issues with wireless connections on campus. Details Unable to connect to SFUNET-SECURE/eduroam If you were able to connect to SFUNET-SECURE/eduroam in the past but can't anymore, your device may have an expired Wi-Fi profile or certificate that needs to be removed before re-connecting: Removing a Wi-Fi profile or network on your mobile device Removing a network certificate from Mac Other connection issues If you can't connect or experience frequent disconnects or slow wireless service, try the following: Ensure you are using a valid SFU computing ID. Ensure you are connecting to the SFUNET-SECURE network. Ensure all operating system updates are installed. Ensure the latest wireless drivers are installed (macOS includes drivers as part of the Operating System updates). Drivers make a significant difference to the performance of your wireless connection. Please find the newest available driver for your wireless device from the vendor's website. Disable any power saving features on the wireless card. Use devices that support at minimum WiFi 5 (802.11ac) on the 5ghz band. Use the Wi-Fi Certified Product Finder to determine if your device supports WiFi 5. Report an issue If after following the above suggestions connectivity has not improved, please report an issue", "and provide the following information:\n\nYour first and last name Your SFU computing ID Your wireless MAC address Your wireless IP address Your device type and Operating System version (for example, iPhone running iOS 15.4, PC laptop running Windows 11, etc.) Building and room number where you are experiencing the connectivity issue The date and time(s) you are experiencing the connectivity issue What is the nature of the connectivity issue? Are you able to connect to wireless and browse www.sfu.ca ? Is the connection slow? Does the wireless connection fail intermittently or totally? Did you note others in the area experiencing the connectivity issue? Other resources The following references may be of use for both troubleshooting and general information: Fix Wi-Fi connection issues in Windows (Microsoft) Wireless LAN (Wikipedia) Overview This article describes the troubleshooting steps you can take if you're having issues with wireless connections on campus.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Manage MFA Settings", "OVERVIEW\n\nIf you wish to switch to a different mobile device for multi-factor authentication, follow the instructions outlined below to add your new device, then remove your old MFA device.", "Note:\n\nIf you already have one MFA device and adding an additional device, be sure to review MFA Multi-Device Registration for best practices. Adding additional MFA devices will expose your account to higher security risks than the accounts that are registered with just one device. Step 1 . Log in to the SFU MFA Management App , using your SFU credentials. Access the SFU MFA Management App", "Note:\n\nIf you no longer have access to your old device, you can use one of your emergency login codes to complete the login process. Step 2 . Click the \" Add MFA Device\" and select if you wish to add a mobile device or hardware token as your MFA device. Step 3. Follow the instructions on the screen to complete the process of adding your new device or app. For additional detailed instructions, visit Setup MFA .", "Note:\n\nRemoving your MFA devices and apps will not turn off multi-factor authentication on your SFU account. Step 1 . Log in to the SFU MFA Management App , using your SFU credentials. Access the SFU MFA Management App", "Note:\n\nIf you no longer have access to your old device, you can use one of your emergency login codes to complete the login process. Step 2 . On the device or app you wish to remove, select the trash bin button . Step 3. Ensure that you are removing the correct device or app. To confirm the removal, select continue . Step 4. You will see a confirmation message that your MFA device or app have been removed. It will no longer appear on the home page of the MFA Management App and device selection upon MFA login. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Manage MFA Settings", "OVERVIEW\n\nThe following are some additional preferences you can set on the SFU MFA Management App", "for a better MFA experience:\n\nSet default MFA device for login Rename an MFA device Set Default MFA Device for Login Step 1 . Log in to the SFU MFA Management App , using your SFU credentials. Access the SFU MFA Management App Step 2 . On the device you wish to set as your default MFA device, click the star button . Note : You can only set one device as a default. Step 3. You can review the changes upon your next MFA login. If you have multiple MFA devices, your default MFA device will be on the top and automatically selected for you upon login. Rename an MFA Device Step 1 . Log in to the SFU MFA Management App , using your SFU credentials. Access the SFU MFA Management App Step 2 . On the device or app you wish to rename, select the pencil button . Step 3. Enter a name for your device or app. Once you are done, select Save . Step 4. You can review the changes upon your next MFA login. If you have multiple MFA devices, this will allow you to easily identify your devices. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Manage MFA Settings", "OVERVIEW\n\nYou can manage your 8-digit emergency login codes on the SFU Management App . Follow the instructions outlined below to view or generate emergency login codes. Note : Emergency logins codes should only be used when you do not have access to your usual MFA codes generated from your MFA device. For example, when you forgot, lost, or broke your mobile device or hardware token. For more information on the differences between MFA codes and emergency login codes, please visit our", "FAQ\n\npage.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1 . Log in to the SFU MFA Management App , using your SFU credentials. Access the SFU MFA Management App Step 2 . Go to the \" Emergency Login Codes", "\" tab. Under this tab, you can:\n\nView current emergency login codes Generate new emergency login codes Print the latest emergency login codes", "Note:\n\nIf you have generated a new set of emergency login codes, please discard any previous emergency login codes to avoid confusion. How do I securely store my emergency login codes? Keep your emergency login codes safe by following these important tips: Store your emergency login codes in a safe, accessible place nearby you, such as your wallet. Do not store your emergency login codes on CAS-protected services such as your SFU Mail account, as you won't be able to access them if you don't have your phone or hardware token. Never share your emergency login codes with anyone. You can generate new emergency login codes at any time by going to the SFU MFA Management App . Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Manage MFA Settings", "OVERVIEW\n\nTrusted browsers are the browsers you authenticated to \"remember me for 7 days\" at the MFA login. You can manage your trusted browsers on the SFU Management App . Follow the instructions outlined below to view or delete trusted browsers.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1 . Log in to the SFU MFA Management App , using your SFU credentials. Access the SFU MFA Management App Step 2 . Go to the \" Trusted Browsers \" tab. Under this tab, you can view a list of browsers you have authenticated to remember you for seven days and the date you authenticated such browser. If you would like to remove any of these trusted browsers, you can click on the \" Trash Can \" icon beside the browsers on the list. This feature can be used when: You accidentally checked off the \"Remember me\" checkbox on a public computer, or You would like a certain browser on your device to forget you and prompt you for MFA again. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article contains frequently asked questions about Multi-Factor Authentication.", "GENERAL FAQ\n\nWho needs to set up MFA? MFA enrollment is required for all faculty, staff and students. All faculty and staff at SFU are required to enroll in MFA . If you are a new employee (including TAs and RAs), enroll in MFA as soon as possible to maintain your access to SFU online services. All new students are required to enroll in MFA by the third week of your first term. We recommend you visit the student guide and enroll early to maintain your access to SFU online services. Existing students (pre-2022) will be required to enroll in MFA at a future date. We recommend you visit the student guide and enroll early to maintain your access to SFU online services. All sponsored accounts are required to enroll in MFA within three weeks after account activation . Accounts enrolled in Delegated Account Management (DAM) will be MFA-locked upon enrollment in DAM. We recommend enrolling early to maintain your access to SFU online services. Sponsored account users should visit the sponsored account MFA page for details. I have a sponsored account. What do I need to do to enroll in MFA? We are aware that sponsored accounts are currently used to meet a variety of business needs. To help you determine next steps for your sponsored account, please refer to sponsored account MFA page for detailed instructions on enrolling in MFA. I don\u2019t have, or I am unable to use a mobile device for MFA. What can I use instead? If you do not have a mobile device or do not wish to use one for MFA, using a hardware token would be an alternative. A hardware token is a small device that displays the 6-digit code for logging into MFA. Please visit the Set up MFA page for more information.", "Note:\n\nHardware tokens should not be used for backup purposes. There are dedicated emergency login codes that serves as a backup if your mobile device is left at home, lost, or runs out of battery. Which SFU applications are protected by MFA? Currently, MFA at SFU is implemented for web applications that use SFU's Central Authentication Service (CAS) for authentication. You will be prompted for your MFA code when you sign into most web applications and/or services at SFU, including:", "CAS-PROTECTED WEB APPLICATIONS\n\ngoSFU, Canvas FINS, myINFO SFU Mail (via a browser) Zoom Microsoft 365 (via web portal) SharePoint AEM (author.sfu.ca) SFU Maillist (maillist.sfu.ca) Research Ethics Application system (Kuali)", "SFU VPN\n\nRemote Desktop", "Note:\n\nFuture services at SFU will require you to be enrolled in MFA. More details will be announced with the new services.", "HOW WILL MFA CHANGE THE WAY I SIGN INTO SFU SYSTEMS?\n\nWith MFA, you will start by signing into SFU applications with your SFU Computing ID and password as you currently do. Next, you will be asked to type in the 6-digit MFA code (changes every 30 seconds) that you see on your MFA device (e.g., mobile device/hardware token). There is also the option of \u201cremembering\u201d your MFA sign-in for 7 days.", "Note:\n\nRemember to keep your MFA device nearby to sign in using the 6-digit MFA codes. You should only use your 8-digit emergency login codes as the last resort. Can I enroll both a hardware token and mobile device? No. Currently, our system does not support multiple MFA devices. Will my MFA experience differ when I am travelling? Your MFA experience should not differ in any way when you are travelling. You will continue to be prompted every day, or every 7 days, depending on whether you have set MFA to remember you. Using MFA FAQ What are the differences between MFA codes and Emergency Login Codes? There are 2 types of codes you would encounter when using MFA: MFA code", "A\n\n6-digit code that refreshes every 30 seconds on your mobile device or hardware token. MFA codes are used for daily logins . Emergency Login Codes A set of 8-digit codes that are generated during your MFA setup and can be located in the SFU MFA Management App . Emergency logins codes are only used when you do not have access to your usual MFA codes (e.g., forgot/lost/broke your mobile device or hardware token). How do I start using my MFA login? How do I retireve my MFA login codes? To log in with MFA, you\u2019ll enter your username and password as you currently do, and then type in the 6-digit MFA code (changes every 30 seconds) that you see on your MFA device (e.g., mobile device/hardware token). There is also the option of \u201cremembering\u201d your MFA sign-in for 7 days.", "Note:\n\nRemember to keep your MFA device nearby to sign in using the 6-digit MFA codes. You should only use your 8-digit emergency login codes as the last resort. How often will I be prompted for MFA? By default, you will be prompted for your MFA code every time you log into a CAS-protected SFU web application. If you do not want to be prompted for MFA every time you log in, you may select the \u201c Remember me on this browser for 7 days \u201d checkbox just below the MFA code field. Upon successful sign-in, you will not be prompted for a MFA code for seven days on those browsers and devices/computers where you authenticated to \u201cremember\u201d your MFA sign-in. This functionality allows each authenticated device/browser combination to maintain and \"remember\" your MFA authorization for 7 days. Please note that you will be prompted for MFA if you perform any of the following actions: Log in using a different browser and device than the ones you previously authenticated to \u201cremember\u201d your MFA sign-in, Clear your browsing history and/or cookies, Enable the browser to \"clear cookies and site data when you close all windows\", Log in under \u201cincognito mode\u201d or \u201cprivate mode\u201d on your browser, or Log in using the same device and browser after seven days since your last MFA sign-in.", "Note:\n\nTo view and/or remove the browsers you\u2019ve allowed to \u201cremember\u201d your MFA login, please visit the SFU MFA Management App . What does the \u201cRemember me on this browser for 7 days\u201d checkbox do? If you do not want to be prompted for MFA every time you log in to a web application, you may check this checkbox to have your browser remembered for 7 days. To view and/or remove the trusted browsers you authenticated to \"remember me for 7 days\", please visit SFU MFA Management App . Please note that you will be prompted for MFA if you perform any of the following actions: Log in using a different browser and device than the ones you previously authenticated to \u201cremember\u201d your MFA sign-in, Clear your browsing history and/or cookies, Enable the browser to \"clear cookies and site data when you close all windows\", Log in under \u201cincognito mode\u201d or \u201cprivate mode\u201d on your browser, or Log in using the same device and browser after seven days since your last MFA sign-in. Why was \"7 days\" chosen as the time period for the browser to remember me? \" 7 days \" was chosen as the time period to remember a browser authentication because it's an option that balances between security and convenience. The most secure option would be to authenticate every login, which is the default settings if the \"Remember me on this browser for 7 days\" checkbox is not selected. The more convenient option would be to authenticate every 30 days, where some institutions have chosen this option. However, this option would bring convenience at the cost of security. This time period is also frequent enough so that it could be easily incorporated into a regular routine (e.g., Tuesday is my MFA day). Why does my 6-digit MFA code", "Note:\n\n30 days, where some institutions have chosen this option. However, this option would bring convenience at the cost of security. This time period is also frequent enough so that it could be easily incorporated into a regular routine (e.g., Tuesday is my MFA day). Why does my 6-digit MFA code change every 30 seconds? TOTP (Time-Based One-time Passcode) protocol for multi-factor authentication requires a time-based (30 second) code that the user must enter. It changes every 30 seconds to maximize security. How do I securely store my emergency login codes? Keep your emergency login codes safe by following these important tips: Store your emergency login codes in a safe, accessible place nearby you, such as your wallet. Do not store your emergency login codes on CAS-protected services such as your SFU Mail account, as you won't be able to access them if you don't have your phone or hardware token. Never share your emergency login codes with anyone. You can generate new emergency login codes at any time by going to the SFU MFA Management App . What if my mobile device/hardware token is left at home, is lost, or runs out of battery? In the case where you don't have your phone or hardware token with you, you can use one of your emergency login codes for access to your SFU account.", "Where to locate your emergency login codes:\n\nWhen you first set up multi-factor authentication, you will be given a list of one-time emergency login codes . Ensure to print/write them down and store them in a safe, accessible place , such as your wallet. If you have already gone through the MFA setup process and missed the opportunity to print/write down the list of emergency login codes for safekeeping, be sure to sign into the SFU MFA Management App to retrieve or generate new emergency login codes before you come across a scenario of not having your mobile device/hardware token with you.", "MOBILE DEVICE FAQ\n\nDo I need to have cellular service or data coverage to use the MFA Applications? No. Aside from the initial app download, TOTP MFA applications do not require any internet connection, cell service, or data coverage to display the MFA codes.", "Note:\n\nTOTP (Time-based One-time Password) protocol for multi-factor authentication requires a time-based (30 second) code that the user must enter. It changes every 30 seconds to maximize security. Will my personal information be collected through MFA and/or the MFA app? No. SFU\u2019s MFA service is built and hosted at SFU and does not collect personal information. In addition, the recommended mobile app, LastPass Authenticator, does not collect personal information. How it works : When you scan the QR code with your mobile app as part of the initial MFA setup, the app is obtaining a secret key from SFU\u2019s MFA servers from which your MFA login codes will be generated. From that point onward, there is no MFA-related communication made from your mobile app. Your mobile app only relies on your mobile device\u2019s time and the secret key for the MFA login code generation every 30 seconds. This is also why the app does not require cellular service nor an internet connection to function.", "Note:\n\nSFU recommends LastPass Authenticator because of the benefits it provides to users, but we are not affiliated with LastPass Authenticator or any third-party MFA applications. You are free to choose any of the MFA mobile apps that support the TOTP protocol. Why is LastPass Authenticator recommended?", "We recommend LastPass Authenticator because:\n\nIt's free to use, It does not collect personal information (only requests file permissions for storing your MFA locally, and camera permissions for scanning QR code), It does not require an internet connection to function (aside from the initial app download), and It's reputable and well-known MFA mobile app.", "Note:\n\nSFU recommends LastPass Authenticator because of the user benefits described above, but we are not affiliated with LastPass Authenticator or any third-party MFA applications. You are free to choose any of the MFA mobile apps that support the TOTP protocol. I already have an app that does MFA, can I use that? Applications that support the TOTP protocol will work for MFA at SFU. If you already have a MFA application that you are using for other services, you may continue to use that application for MFA at SFU as well.", "Note:\n\nSFU recommends LastPass Authenticator because of the benefits it provides to users, but we are not affiliated with LastPass Authenticator or any third-party MFA applications. You are free to choose any of the MFA mobile apps that support the TOTP protocol. * TOTP (Time-based One-time Password) protocol for multi-factor authentication requires a time-based (30 second) code that the user must enter. It changes every 30 seconds to maximize security. Can use a tablet or other mobile device that is not a smartphone for MFA? Any \"smart device\", such as iPad or Android tablet, can be used to run an MFA application.", "Note:\n\nMFA applications do not require any cell service or data coverage to work, but you will need internet access when you first download the application onto your device. I've recently acquired a new mobile device. What do I need to do? To change the mobile device you use for MFA, please follow the instructions outlined on the Change MFA device page.", "HARDWARE TOKEN FAQ\n\nhow do I obtain a hardware token?", "Please select one of the two options below:\n\nFor students, alumni, retirees and sponsored accounts who are unable to or cannot use a mobile device for MFA, hardware tokens are available for purchase at the SFU Bookstore either in-store or online . For staff and faculty accounts , please visit Request a Hardware Token . Can hardware tokens be mailed outside of Canada? Yes, hardware tokens are sent via Canada Post Lettermail\u2122. Can I have someone else to pickup the hardware token on my behalf? If you are purchasing a hardware token from the SFU Bookstore , yes. Hardware tokens are tied to a specific user upon purchase. If you are a staff or faculty requesting a hardware token, please contact IT Service Desk if token pickups are available when submitting a request. Can I get a new hardware token if I lose mine? To replace a lost hardware token, see the two options below: For students, alumni, retirees and sponsored accounts , a new hardware tokens will need to be purchase at the SFU Bookstore either in-store or online . For staff and faculty accounts , please visit Request a Hardware Token .", "Note:\n\nIf you have lost your hardware token, use your MFA emergency codes to log into your account while obtaining a replacement hardware token or switch to mobile . Can I use my personal hardware token (OTP token device) instead of requesting one? No, since the hardware tokens are pre-programmed to your SFU account before giving it to you, using your own or personal hardware tokens will not be compatible with our systems. How long will the battery last on my token? The battery life of hardware tokens are expected to last at least around 4 to 5 years.", "TROUBLESHOOTING FAQ\n\nWhy is my browser not remembering my MFA login for 7 days? By checking off the \"Remember me on this browser for 7 days\" checkbox at the login page, you can set your browser on a specific device to remember your MFA login for 7 days. The following are some common reasons as to why a browser may fail to remember your MFA login for 7 days: Clear your browsing history and/or cookies, Enable the browser to \"clear cookies and site data when you close all windows\", Log in under \u201cincognito mode\u201d or \u201cprivate mode\u201d on your browser, Log in using a different browser and device than the ones you previously authenticated to \u201cremember\u201d your MFA sign-in, or Log in using the same device and browser after seven days since your last MFA sign-in. To view and/or remove the trusted browsers you authenticated to \"remember me for 7 days\", please visit SFU MFA Management App . If your browser still doesn't remember your MFA login for 7 days, your browser may have outdated MFA cookies. Follow these steps to remove existing MFA cookies: Visit the SFU MFA Management App and select \"Trusted Browsers\" tab, Remove all your trusted browsers by clicking on the Trash Bin, Clear your browsing history and/or cookies. Related Articles (1) Multi-Factor Authentication - Students This article is designed to provide students with a high-level summary of the MFA enrollment. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)", "OVERVIEW\n\nAn extra layer of protection for your account Is that really you logging in? In a remote work environment, attackers are using increasingly sophisticated ways of obtaining your password. SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is an extra layer of protection that can be added to your SFU account to drastically increase its security. By using MFA, your digital identity, data, and access to systems are still protected even if your password is compromised. Did you know? On average, there are 4,000,000+ logins per month to SFU web applications protected by CAS. Each month, SFU detects and remediates 200+ unauthorized logins from stolen, phished, or guessed credentials. It only takes one compromised account to put digital identities, sensitive data, and infrastructure at high risk.", "HOW DOES MFA WORK?\n\n\"Multi-factor\" refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically: something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password), and something you have (i.e., a time-based passcode from your mobile device/hardware token). This creates a layered defense, preventing further unauthorized access from your SFU account if your password is compromised. What SFU applications are protected by MFA? Currently, MFA at SFU is implemented for web applications that use SFU's Central Authentication Service (CAS) for authentication. You will be prompted for your MFA code when you sign into most web applications and/or services at SFU, including:", "CAS-PROTECTED WEB APPLICATIONS\n\ngoSFU, Canvas FINS, myINFO SFU Mail (via a browser) Zoom Microsoft 365 (via web portal) SharePoint AEM (author.sfu.ca) SFU Maillist (maillist.sfu.ca) Research Ethics Application system (Kuali)", "SFU VPN\n\nRemote Desktop Learn more about CAS What is using MFA like? Currently, only your password is used to verify that it\u2019s you logging in with your SFU Computing ID. With MFA, you\u2019ll enter your password as you currently do, and then will be asked for a time-based MFA code that only you have access to on your mobile device/hardware token. There is also the option of \u201cremembering\u201d your MFA sign-in for seven days. Even if an attacker obtains your password, they won\u2019t be able to complete the login process without the time-based code. This is how MFA acts as an additional layer of defense to protect against unauthorized access to your data. Please note, your mobile device/hardware token will need to be close by when you sign into a CAS-protected application. What if my mobile device/hardware token is left at home, is lost, or runs out of battery? In the case where you don't have your phone or hardware token with you, you can use one of your emergency login codes for access to your SFU account.", "Where to locate your emergency login codes:\n\nWhen you first set up multi-factor authentication, you will be given a list of one-time emergency login codes . Ensure to print/write them down and store them in a safe, accessible place , such as your wallet. If you have already gone through the MFA setup process and missed the opportunity to print/write down the list of emergency login codes for safekeeping, be sure to sign into the SFU MFA Management App to retrieve or generate new emergency login codes before you come across a scenario of not having your mobile device/hardware token with you. Ready to set up MFA? The initial setup includes three parts which will take approximately 5 minutes. Set Up MFA Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Set Up MFA", "OVERVIEW\n\nPlease select the device you are planning to use for MFA and proceed to the setup instructions:", "MOBILE DEVICE\n\nRecommended for most MFA users as it offers the best experience. \u2b50 It's more convenient Estimated 5-minute setup experience to complete the enrollment. Can be set up at any time with the self-service instructions . No additional devices to carry with you ; most individuals already keep their mobile devices close by. LastPass Authenticator mobile app benefits", ":\n\nLightweight app (i.e., approximately equivalent to the size of a photo) No personal info collected/tracked No internet/data connection needed to function Free of charge to use Well-known and reputable vendor Other mobile app options available ; many free apps are available on the app store that supports SFU's MFA. \u2b50 MFA code can only be accessed by authorized individual of the mobile device If lost or stolen, your mobile device may have biometric or other protections (e.g., your phone's passcode lock) that further protect your MFA codes from unauthorized access. Set up MFA using Mobile Device", "HARDWARE TOKEN\n\nAvailable as an alternative for those who cannot or do not wish to use a mobile device for any reason. It's less convenient Need to obtain a physical token by purchasing or submitting a request to begin the enrollment process. An additional device to carry with you ; can be easily misplaced due to the small size. Non-serviceable , non-rechargeable battery with limited life span. No display backlighting ; may be more difficult for some individuals to see codes. More prone to \"invalid code\" errors ; hardware tokens run on their own built-in timing devices to generate codes that may fall out of synchronization with SFU's MFA servers. If this occurs, you will need to contact the IT Service Desk for a reset. MFA code is displayed on the token and no authorization is needed to access the codes If lost or stolen, a hardware token has no further protections in place to prevent unauthorized access to your MFA codes. You would need to immediately report a lost/stolen hardware token to the IT Service Desk to request its deactivation. Set up MFA using hardware token", "EQUIPMENT NEEDED FOR THE SET UP\n\nFor the best experience, you will need the following equipment for your MFA set up: The device you are planning to use for MFA (i.e., your mobile device or hardware token), and", "A\n\nlaptop/desktop to assist with the enrollment. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Set Up MFA", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the 3 parts needed to set up your mobile device for MFA, and it should only take approximately 5 minutes:", "Part 1. Install a MFA Mobile App\n\nOn your mobile device, go to the App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android) and install \" LastPass Authenticator", "\":\n\nLastPass Authenticator (iOS) LastPass Authenticator (Android)", "Note:\n\nPlease download \u201c LastPass Authenticator \u201d and not \u201cLastPass Password Manager\u201d. SFU is not affiliated with LastPass Authenticator or any third-party MFA applications. You are free to choose any of the MFA mobile apps that support the TOTP protocol. Why is LastPass Authenticator recommended?", "We recommend LastPass Authenticator because:\n\nIt's free to use, It does not collect personal information (only requests file permissions for storing your MFA locally, and camera permissions for scanning QR code), It does not require an internet connection to function (aside from the initial app download), and It's reputable and well-known MFA mobile app.", "Note:\n\nSFU recommends LastPass Authenticator because of the user benefits described above, but we are not affiliated with LastPass Authenticator or any third-party MFA applications. You are free to choose any of the MFA mobile apps that support the TOTP protocol. I already have an app that does MFA, can I use that? Applications that support the TOTP protocol will work for MFA at SFU. If you already have a MFA application that you are using for other services, you may continue to use that application for MFA at SFU as well.", "Note:\n\nSFU recommends LastPass Authenticator because of the benefits it provides to users, but we are not affiliated with LastPass Authenticator or any third-party MFA applications. You are free to choose any of the MFA mobile apps that support the TOTP protocol. * TOTP (Time-based One-time Password) protocol for multi-factor authentication requires a time-based (30 second) code that the user must enter. It changes every 30 seconds to maximize security.", "Part 2. Set up mobile device with MFA\n\n1. Have your MFA mobile app ready and nearby . On your desktop or laptop computer , go to mfa.sfu.ca to set up your mobile device. Sign in with your SFU computing ID and password. 2. Once you have successfully signed in, you will see the two options available for MFA enrollment. Select \" I'll use my Mobile Device for MFA \" to begin your set up process. Next, read the instructions on the screen to ensure you have the equipment needed for this set up. Select \" Continue \" when you are ready. 3. On the MFA setup page, you are presented with 3 steps that correspond with the following sub points (i.e., 3a , 3b , and 3c", "):\n\n3a) Launch the MFA mobile app on your device, and select \" Add new account \". 3b) Scan the QR code presented on the MFA setup page using your mobile device. Once the account is added, a \"Need backup?\" consent window may pop up on your mobile app asking to save your account as a backup. Select \"No thanks\" . Can't scan the QR code? On the MFA setup page, select the \"Can't Scan QR code\" button. Go to your MFA mobile app and select \" No QR code? \". Fill in the fields presented on your MFA mobile app and select \" Save \" when you are ready. 3c) Once you have registered your mobile app, type in the 6-digit MFA code presented in the app. Next, select \"Continue\" to proceed to the final step of your MFA enrollment .", "PART 3. Print and store emergency login codes\n\nAs the final step of your MFA setup, please do one of the following to keep a record of your emergency login codes: Select \" Print Emergency Login Codes\" to print out a physical copy of your emergency login codes, or Write down your emergency login codes on a piece of paper. Once you have documented and stored your emergency login codes safely, check the box beside \" I have printed and securely stored my emergency login codes \" and select \" Complete MFA Setup \". These 8-digit emergency login codes are one-time use codes , and should only be used as the last resort. What are the differences between MFA codes and Emergency Login Codes? There are 2 types of codes you would encounter when using MFA: MFA code", "A\n\n6-digit code that refreshes every 30 seconds on your mobile device or hardware token. MFA codes are used for daily logins . Emergency Login Codes A set of 8-digit codes that are generated during your MFA setup and can be located in the SFU MFA Management App . Emergency logins codes are only used when you do not have access to your usual MFA codes (e.g., forgot/lost/broke your mobile device or hardware token). How do I securely store my emergency login codes? Keep your emergency login codes safe by following these important tips: Store your emergency login codes in a safe, accessible place nearby you, such as your wallet. Do not store your emergency login codes on CAS-protected services such as your SFU Mail account, as you won't be able to access them if you don't have your phone or hardware token. Never share your emergency login codes with anyone. You can generate new emergency login codes at any time by going to the SFU MFA Management App Congratulations, you've completed your MFA setup! If your MFA setup was successful, a \" Congratulations, your MFA registration is complete \" confirmation message will be shown on the final screen. Your MFA mobile app should now be showing a 6-digit MFA code that changes every 30 seconds. How do I start using my MFA login? Log in with MFA is easy as 1-2-3! Sign in to an SFU application with your SFU Computing ID and password, as you currently do. Type in the 6-digit MFA code being displayed on your MFA mobile app. Select \"Submit\" to sign in.", "Note:\n\nRemember to keep your mobile device nearby to sign in using the 6-digit MFA codes . You should only use your 8-digit emergency login codes as the last resort. What does the \u201cRemember me on this browser for 7 days\u201d checkbox do? If you do not want to be prompted for MFA every time you log in to a web application, you may check this checkbox to have your browser remembered for 7 days. To view and/or remove the trusted browsers you authenticated to \"remember me for 7 days\", please visit SFU MFA Management App . Please note that you will be prompted for MFA if you perform any of the following actions: Log in using a different browser and device than the ones you previously authenticated to \u201cremember\u201d your MFA sign-in, Clear your browsing history and/or cookies, Enable the browser to \"clear cookies and site data when you close all windows\", Log in under \u201cincognito mode\u201d or \u201cprivate mode\u201d on your browser, or Log in using the same device and browser after seven days since your last MFA sign-in. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Set Up MFA", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the 3 parts needed to set up your hardware token for MFA:", "Part 1. Obtain a MFA hardware token\n\nIf you don\u2019t have a mobile device or are unable to use one for MFA, using a hardware token would be an alternative. A hardware token is a small device that displays the 6-digit codes for logging into MFA. how do I obtain a hardware token?", "Please select one of the two options below:\n\nFor students, alumni, retirees and sponsored accounts who are unable to or cannot use a mobile device for MFA, hardware tokens are available for purchase at the SFU Bookstore either in-store or online . For staff and faculty accounts , please visit Request a Hardware Token .", "Part 2. Set up hardware token with MFA\n\n1. Once you've obtained your hardware token, have it ready and nearby. On your desktop or laptop computer , go to mfa.sfu.ca to set up your hardware token. Sign in with your SFU computing ID and password . 2. Once you have successfully signed in, you will see the two options available for MFA enrollment. Select \" I have a Hardware Token \" to begin your set up process. Next, read the instructions on the screen to ensure you have the equipment needed for this set up. Select \" Continue \" when you are ready. 3. On the MFA setup page, enter the serial number located on the back of your hardware token and select \" Continue \". 4. Push the button on the front of your hardware token to display a 6-digit MFA code. Type in the code shown on the token display. Next, select \" Continue \" to proceed to the final step of your MFA enrollment. Token time drift? If it's detected that the clock on your MFA token has drifted, you will see the following screen. Enter an additional code from your token to reset your token's time, and select \"Continue\" to proceed to the final step of your MFA enrollment.", "PART 3. Print and store emergency login codes\n\nAs the final step of your MFA setup, please do one of the following to keep a record of your emergency login codes: Select \" Print Emergency Login Codes\" to print out a physical copy of your emergency login codes, or Write down your emergency login codes on a piece of paper. Once you have documented and stored your emergency login codes safely, check the box beside \" I have printed and securely stored my emergency login codes \" and select \" Complete MFA Setup \". These 8-digit emergency login codes are one-time use codes , and should only be used as the last resort. What are the differences between MFA codes and Emergency Login Codes? There are 2 types of codes you would encounter when using MFA: MFA code", "A\n\n6-digit code that refreshes every 30 seconds on your mobile device or hardware token. MFA codes are used for daily logins . Emergency Login Codes A set of 8-digit codes that are generated during your MFA setup and can be located in the SFU MFA Management App . Emergency logins codes are only used when you do not have access to your usual MFA codes (e.g., forgot/lost/broke your mobile device or hardware token). How do I securely store my emergency login codes? Keep your emergency login codes safe by following these important tips: Store your emergency login codes in a safe, accessible place nearby you, such as your wallet. Do not store your emergency login codes on CAS-protected services such as your SFU Mail account, as you won't be able to access them if you don't have your phone or hardware token. Never share your emergency login codes with anyone. You can generate new emergency login codes at any time by going to the SFU MFA Management App . Congratulations, you've completed your MFA setup! If your MFA setup was successful, a \" Congratulations, your MFA registration is complete \" confirmation message will be shown on the final screen. Your MFA token should now be showing a 6-digit MFA code that changes every 30 seconds. How do I start using my MFA login? Log in with MFA is easy as 1-2-3! Sign in to an SFU application with your SFU Computing ID and password, as you currently do. Type in the 6-digit MFA code being displayed on your MFA token. Select \"Submit\" to sign in.", "Note:\n\nRemember to keep your hardware token nearby to sign in using the 6-digit MFA codes . You should only use your 8-digit emergency login codes as the last resort. What does the \u201cRemember me on this browser for 7 days\u201d checkbox do? If you do not want to be prompted for MFA every time you log in to a web application, you may check this checkbox to have your browser remembered for 7 days. To view and/or remove the trusted browsers you authenticated to \"remember me for 7 days\", please visit SFU MFA Management App . Please note that you will be prompted for MFA if you perform any of the following actions: Log in using a different browser and device than the ones you previously authenticated to \u201cremember\u201d your MFA sign-in, Clear your browsing history and/or cookies, Enable the browser to \"clear cookies and site data when you close all windows\", Log in under \u201cincognito mode\u201d or \u201cprivate mode\u201d on your browser, or Log in using the same device and browser after seven days since your last MFA sign-in. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article is designed to provide students with a high-level summary of the MFA enrollment. For more information, please visit the full website for MFA or see our collection of FAQs .", "ARE YOU A NEW STUDENT?\n\nAll new students are required to enroll in MFA by the the third week of your first enrollment term. We recommend enrolling prior to the beginning of the semester to maintain your access to SFU online services and to avoid disruption to your studies. Set up now", "SET UP\n\nThe following is a simplified version of the MFA enrollment instructions. For the complete instruction with screenshots , you can visit our setup MFA using mobile device page.", "1. INSTALL A MFA MOBILE APP\n\nOn your mobile device, go to the App Store (iOS) or Play Store (Android) and install \" LastPass Authenticator \".", "2. SET UP MOBILE APP AT MFA.SFU.CA\n\nOn your computer, go to mfa.sfu.ca to set up your mobile device. Sign in with your SFU computing ID and password. Once you have signed in, select \" I'll use my Mobile Device for MFA \" to begin your setup process. Follow the steps presented on the MFA setup page to complete your setup.", "3. PRINT EMERGENCY LOGIN CODES\n\nPrint a copy or write down your emergency login codes. Once you have documented and stored your emergency login codes safely, check the box beside \" I have printed and securely stored my emergency login codes \" and select \" Complete MFA Setup \".", "CONGRATULATIONS, YOU'VE COMPLETED THE SETUP!\n\nIf your setup was successful, a \" You are enrolled in Multi-factor Authentication \" confirmation message will be shown on the final screen. Your MFA mobile app should now be showing a 6-digit MFA code that changes every 30 seconds.", "Note:\n\nIf you are unable to or cannot use a mobile device, hardware tokens are available for purchase via the SFU Bookstore either in-store or online . Log in using MFA Log in with MFA is easy as 1-2-3! Sign in to an SFU application with your SFU Computing ID and password, as you currently do. Type in the 6-digit MFA code being displayed on your MFA mobile app. Select \"Submit\" to sign in. More questions about MFA? Visit our Frequently Asked Questions about MFA article for answers! Related Articles (1)", "MFA FAQ\n\nFrequently asked questions about Multi-Factor Authentication. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article is designed to provide you with a guide to enrol a sponsored account into MFA. For more information about the service, please visit the full website for MFA or see our collection of FAQs .", "SPONSORED ACCOUNT REQUIRED TO ENROLL IN MULTI-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION\n\nAll sponsored accounts are required to enroll in MFA by March 31, 2022 . We recommend enrolling early to maintain your access to SFU online services. The method in which your sponsored account is enrolled in MFA depends on how the account is used. Please choose from one of the two options below. 1. I am the only person using this account This sponsored account is used by one individual (or personal sponsored account ), where the password and access to the account would never be shared with or transferred to others. Some examples include sponsored accounts assigned to temporary staff or contractors. Usually, the name and Computing ID of personal sponsored accounts are created based on the first name and last name of the individual (for example, \u201cRudyard Kipling\u201d, kipling@sfu.ca ). If you are the only person using the account, you may enroll it in MFA now. See \"How to Enroll into MFA\" for details. How to enroll into MFA? Personal sponsored accounts can be self-enrolled in MFA just like a faculty/staff account. Visit Set Up MFA to get started. 2. Multiple people use this account This sponsored account is shared between multiple users (or role/departmental sponsored account ), where it is possible that the password or access to the account is shared with other individuals. Some examples include departmental roles, clubs/associations, and test accounts. Usually, the name and/or Computing ID are created based on the role or title and not an individual (for example, \u201cIT Services\u201d, itsinfo@sfu.ca ). If this account is shared between multiple people, you need to transition to using delegate logins . This allows multiple people to log into a sponsored account using their own SFU account credentials. See \"How to Enroll into MFA\" for details. How to enroll into MFA? If you are the", "SPONSORED ACCOUNT REQUIRED TO ENROLL IN MULTI-FACTOR AUTHENTICATION\n\nIf this account is shared between multiple people, you need to transition to using delegate logins . This allows multiple people to log into a sponsored account using their own SFU account credentials. See \"How to Enroll into MFA\" for details. How to enroll into MFA? If you are the account sponsor of the sponsored account, you will need to complete the following steps: Enable delegate access on your sponsored account using the Delegate Account Management . Add delegates or managers to the sponsored account. Inform your users of the sponsored account to use delegate login to access the sponsored account. IT Services will enroll your sponsored account in MFA on your behalf. The sponsored account's MFA codes aren't required when using delegate login. If you are a current user of the sponsored account, you will need to take the following steps: Inform the account sponsor to take the actions listed above. Provide your computing ID to the account sponsor to add you as a delegate to the sponsored account. You will receive an email once you're added. Log into the sponsored account using delegate login with your SFU account when you wish to access the sponsored account for your day-to-day tasks. Note : If you don't know the account sponsor of your sponsored account, see the sponsored account FAQ below. Enrolling Unique cases of Role/Departmental Sponsored Account We are aware that sponsored accounts are used to meet a variety of business needs. Here are some examples of unique cases of using role/departmental sponsored accounts and how to implement MFA to your workflows: What should I do if my sponsored account is used by non-SFU user (i.e., vendors, contractors, or non-SFU volunteers)? If the account is given to a single user outside of SFU", ":\n\nThe account can be treated as a personal sponsored account and can be self-enrolled in MFA. The primary user should visit Set Up MFA to get started. If the account is shared to multiple users outside of SFU , every non-SFU user accessing SFU services should have their own sponsored account. The account sponsor will need to take the following steps: Request additional sponsored accounts for every non-SFU user. Visit Sponsored Computing ID for details on requesting sponsored accounts. After every non-SFU user has their own sponsored account, inform the users that they can self-enrolled their sponsored accounts in MFA. The primary user should visit Set Up MFA to get started on their sponsored accounts. (Optional) If the shared sponsored account is used for centralizing data or file ownership, the sponsor may enable delegate access on this account using the Delegate Account Management and add the non-SFU users as delegates with their new sponsored accounts. If the account is shared to multiple users mixed with both SFU users and non-SFU users , every non-SFU user accessing SFU services should have their own sponsored account. The account sponsor will need to take the following steps: Request additional sponsored accounts for every non-SFU user. Visit Sponsored Computing ID for details on requesting sponsored accounts. After every non-SFU user has their own sponsored account, inform the users that they can self-enrolled their sponsored accounts in MFA. The primary user should visit Set Up MFA to get started on their sponsored accounts. (Optional) If the shared sponsored account is used for centralizing data or file ownership, the sponsor may enable delegate access on this account using the Delegate Account Management and add the non-SFU users as delegates with their new sponsored accounts. What should I do if my sponsored account is used by short-term", ":\n\nthe shared sponsored account is used for centralizing data or file ownership, the sponsor may enable delegate access on this account using the Delegate Account Management and add the non-SFU users as delegates with their new sponsored accounts. What should I do if my sponsored account is used by short-term users (i.e., visitors, guests, or short-term faculty)? As part of SFU\u2019s ongoing effort to improve the security of all online services, you may need to change your business workflows. Please take a look below if any of the following apply: If your sponsored account is", "used to provide Wi-Fi access:\n\nSFU's wireless network provides a guest Wi-Fi network that does not require an SFU account. We encourage you to phase out the use of a shared sponsored account to provide Wi-Fi services to your visitors or guests. Alternatively, those who are members of higher ed or research communities may be able to access the eduroam Wi-Fi network. If your sponsored account is", "used to provide library resources:\n\nGuidelines and policies outlined by SFU Library services must be followed. Members of the general public may access most of the Library\u2019s online resources using SFU Library computers labs and open access resources can be accessed off-campus. A small number of databases are further restricted to current SFU students, faculty and staff only. We encourage you to phase out the use of a shared sponsored account to provide unrestricted library services to your visitors or guests. For more information, visit guest access , guest logins or public computer policy at SFU Library. If your sponsored account uses other SFU services (i.e., Zoom, Canvas, etc.)", ", you may need a continue using sponsored accounts:\n\nEvery non-SFU user accessing SFU services should have their own sponsored account. You may need to request additional sponsored accounts for every non-SFU user. Visit Sponsored Computing ID for details on requesting sponsored accounts. Additionally, we recommend enrolling these sponsored accounts into MFA with a hardware token to facilitate a 'physical transfer' of MFA for onboarding/offboarding short-term users. Hardware tokens for sponsored accounts can be purchased at this SFU Bookstore product page . What should I do if my sponsored account is a service account where no one logs into the account? As long as your service account does not require CAS authentication to your services, you don't need to take action. IT Services will enroll the sponsored account in MFA on your behalf if you choose not to enroll in MFA. Enrolling the service account into MFA does not impact existing logins and the usual login methods outside of CAS. You can access the service account using delegate login on web-based", "CAS\n\n-protected services without needing the service account's MFA codes once IT Services enrolls on your behalf. What should I do if my sponsored account is a lightweight account? All lightweight accounts will need to be enrolled into MFA in the near future. Transferring sponsored account ownership after enrolling in MFA Role/departmental sponsored accounts typically involve transferring ownership for business continuity. Here are some examples depending on how the sponsored account is enrolled or used: What should I do if my role/departmental sponsored account has delegated access? As the account sponsor, I'll be transferring ownership of the account myself: Log into the Delegate Account Management app and remove delegates to offboard SFU individuals and add delegates to onboard SFU individuals. As the account sponsor, I'll be leaving it up to the primary users to transfer ownership themselves: Log into the Delegate Account Management app and add a manager (such as the primary user) for them to self-manage the sponsored account access. Note : If you are onboarding non-SFU users, you will need to provide every non-SFU user with their own sponsored account. Visit Sponsored Computing ID for details on requesting sponsored accounts. What should I do if my role/departmental sponsored account is given to non-SFU users?", "If the sponsored account is enrolled with a mobile device:\n\nWhen the user is offboarding, the account sponsor will need to reset the account password, then contact the IT Service Desk to reset the MFA registration to expire previous mobile registrations. When a new user is onboarding on the account, ask the new user to immediately prepare to enroll into MFA at their first login.", "If the sponsored account is enrolled with a hardware token:\n\nWhen the user is offboarding, the account sponsor will need to reset the account password, then ask the user to return the hardware token (if the token is purchased by the sponsor or department). If the hardware token is not returned (or is purchased by the user), contact the IT Service Desk to reset the MFA registration to expire previous hardware token registrations. When a new user is onboarding on the account, the account sponsor should provide them with a hardware token or ask the new user to immediately prepare to enroll into MFA at their first login if the MFA registration was reset. Note : The process outlined here should only be used when transferring the use of a sponsored account to another individual without an SFU Computing ID and who cannot use delegated login. Every time the account is transferred, the account sponsor must reset the account password and MFA registration to revoke any previous access . There can only be one user for each sponsored account at a time. Sponsored Account FAQ Does MFA affect Outlook Desktop, Thunderbird, or other email clients? Enabling delegate access or enrolling in MFA with the sponsored account does not impact existing logins and the usual login methods to email clients. At this time, email client connections use SFTP and not through SFU", "CAS\n\n. Please note that this is expected to change once SFU Mail migrates to Exchange Online in the near future, allowing connections to SFU Mail using email client to go through SFU", "CAS\n\n. For details, visit our SFU Microsoft 365 Road Map . I don't know the sponsor of my sponsored account. How do I find out? You can use the Sponsor Lookup App to find who is the sponsor of your sponsored account. Once you're logged in, enter the sponsored account computing ID you wish to lookup the sponsor. Note : To access the app, you must be logged into a staff, faculty or sponsored account, and be connected to campus networks (or SFU VPN). How do I obtain a hardware token for my sponsored account? For sponsored accounts that are unable to or cannot use a mobile device for MFA, or prefer a hardware token to facilitate a 'physical transfer' of MFA for onboarding/offboarding processes, hardware tokens are available for purchase via the SFU Bookstore either in-store or online . Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Overview This article lists the how-to guides, training and resources on using Microsoft Teams for General Users. Details Set up & Basics SFU MS Teams - Etiquette Sign in & access Teams Change your status & status message Change themes and layouts Change profile picture Change display name, title, or contact details Manage notification settings Teams & Channels Teams vs. channels Public vs. private team Public vs. private channel Roles of a team (e.g., team owner, member, and guests) Show or hide a team or channel Organize your teams list Leave a team Calendar & Meetings Access your SFU Mail calendar in Teams Add a channel calendar in Teams Schedule a Teams meeting with additional participant settings Schedule a Teams meeting with registration Schedule your Teams meeting with Outlook on Desktop Collaboration & File Management Upload a file Access a file Share a file link Collaborate on a file Delete a file Restore a file View/restore previous versions of a file File ownership in a team vs. a chat Chats & Messages Start a chat (1:1 or group) Send a file, picture, or link Hide, unhide, mute, or pin a chat Edit or delete a sent message Share your screen in a chat Use @mentions in a chat Send a message/annoucement to a channel Voice & Video Calls Start a call (1:1 or group) Share screen in a call/meeting Add someone to a call Change video background Manage your call settings in Teams Record a meeting in Teams File & folder sync Sync Teams files on your desktop Change or stop Teams file sync on desktop Update synced folder when team name change Troubleshooting Camera isn't working in Teams I can't sync on Microsoft Teams Additional Training Resources Teams Learning Centre General User Training - Slide Deck (pptx) Video Trainings", "folder sync Sync Teams files on your desktop Change or stop Teams file sync on desktop Update synced folder when team name change Troubleshooting Camera isn't working in Teams I can't sync on Microsoft Teams Additional Training Resources Teams Learning Centre General User Training - Slide Deck (pptx) Video Trainings Instructor-led training Overview This article lists the how-to guides, training and resources on using Microsoft Teams for General Users.", "Overview This article lists the how-to guides, training and resources on using Microsoft Teams for Team Owners. Details Team management SFU MS Teams - Etiquette Plan a team How are the teams at SFU structured Manually- vs. group-managed teams Change team description Change from private to public team Manage team settings and permissions Change between Group-managed and Manually-managed team Channel Management Teams vs. channels Public vs. private channel Create a channel in Teams Send a message to a channel Show or hide a team or channel Change moderator roles and settings in a channel Edit, delete, hide, or leave a channel Team Membership Management Add members Accept or deny requests to join a team Add role/sponsored accounts Add another team owner Remove members Remove another team owner Roles and permission of a team (e.g., team owner, member, and guests) External user/Guest Membership Who are guests? What are the capabilities of guests? Add or remove guests Manage guest permissions for channels Delete, Archive & Restore Delete a team Archive or restore an archived team Delete or restore a channel Advanced Settings Change team name Renew a team Team Owner Toolkit Some resources in this section are undergoing development. Be sure to watch for updates and new releases. Teams Learning Centre - This is a learning centre put together by Microsoft to help with the basics of Microsoft Teams. Team Member Training - Slide Deck (pptx) - Use this slide deck to onboard your team members to MS Teams . It provides a general walkthrough and covers the key features to get started. Overview This article lists the how-to guides, training and resources on using Microsoft Teams for Team Owners.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Overview The MS Teams Etiquette for SFU covers the best practices for the following areas: Converstations, Chats, and Messages Meeting and Calls Teams and Channels Conversations, Chats, and Messages Clarify expectations on response times to messages as needed. Team members may have different constraints that may affect response times. Take note of your team member\u2019s availability status. They may need to focus on other tasks and may not respond to your message immediately as a result. Be polite, professional and respectful in all your conversations. The use of images, memes, emojis, stickers and GIFs can convey different tones. Use them mindfully. The use of ALL CAPS can signal yelling or shouting. Use them appropriately. Use @mentions mindfully. If you need a team member\u2019s attention to read or reply, using mentions (@name) is appropriate. Only use channel-wide mentions (@channels) or team-wide mentions (@team) if you are requesting attention from the entire team. This creates a notification for everyone in that channel/team. Consider using the emoji reaction button to acknowledge a message in place of short replies. Make use of the reply button when posting a reply to a conversation in a channel. Posting your reply as a new message (instead of using the reply button) can make the conversation more difficult to follow. Keep channel conversations relevant to that channel\u2019s purpose and topic. For ad hoc conversations, consider using the chat function instead of posting messages in channels. Meetings and Calls Strive to start and end calls/meetings on time. If you are an attendee and anticipate that you will be late for a call/meeting, notify the meeting organizer ahead of time with a quick chat message. Mute yourself when you are not speaking. There may be background sounds that you may not be aware", "and end calls/meetings on time. If you are an attendee and anticipate that you will be late for a call/meeting, notify the meeting organizer ahead of time with a quick chat message. Mute yourself when you are not speaking. There may be background sounds that you may not be aware of, but others may hear. Leave a message in the meeting chat if you joined late or need to leave early, instead of interrupting the speaker by announcing it verbally. Utilize background effects (or blurred background) if there are visual distractions in your video background. Select an appropriate background effect based on your audience. If you are eating or doing tasks that can be visually distracting to others, consider turning off your camera. Teams and Channels For Team Members Be mindful about who you are inviting into your team. New team members will be able to see all previous messages and files on public channels. If you are not a Team Owner, it is best to inform your Team Owner before inviting people to a team. It is best to speak with the team owner(s) before creating a new channel . If there are certain files or conversations that are should only be accessed by specific team members, consider creating a private channel . Only upload and share files that are relevant to your team or project. For your own files that are unrelated to the team, you can store them in your own OneDrive account. For Team Owners Before requesting a new team , have a conversation with your local IT staff or whomever may be overseeing the collection of teams for your faculty/department/unit. This is help minimize the creation of duplicate teams with overlapping purposes and/or memberships. Also consider whether a new channel within an existing team would", "requesting a new team , have a conversation with your local IT staff or whomever may be overseeing the collection of teams for your faculty/department/unit. This is help minimize the creation of duplicate teams with overlapping purposes and/or memberships. Also consider whether a new channel within an existing team would be sufficient. Check with your faculty/department/unit for guidelines on the naming conventions and appropriate imagery for your team picture (i.e., the image identifying your team). Inform team members before renaming a channel to minimize confusion. Before removing a member/guest from your team , notify them and ensure that the document storage and retention policies in your faculty/department/unit are addressed. MS Teams will not send a notification to the member/guest removed from your team. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to sign in and access Microsoft Teams. How to sign in and access Teams Step 1.", "Select your method of accessing Microsoft Teams:\n\nMS Teams web : Visit M365 Portal > select MS Teams icon MS Teams desktop : Launch the software on your desktop MS Team mobile app : Launch the application on your mobile device How do I install MS Teams on my Individual-use or university-managed device(s)? Individual-use To download Microsoft Teams on your individual-use device , visit Microsoft Team's download page for more information. University-managed If you are an SFU faculty/staff and you hold a university-managed device , Microsoft Teams should be pre-installed on your device. Please contact the IT Service Desk for any software inquiries/installations. Step 2.", "Log in to Microsoft Teams:\n\na) At the Microsoft login screen, enter your SFU email address (i.e., yourSFUcomputingID@sfu.ca ). b) You will see a page that says \u201cTaking you to your organization\u2019s sign-in page\u201d and will be redirected to SFU\u2019s Central Authentication Service (CAS) page. c) Log in using your SFU Computing ID and password. Enter your", "MFA\n\ncode, when prompted. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change your status and status message on MS Teams. Your status on MS Teams is visible to all Teams users and can be used to indicate your current availability. You can also set your status message to include details you want others to see in Teams. MS Teams will automatically set your status in some scenarios (e.g., your status will be automatically changed into \"Busy\" when you are in a Teams call). How to change your status Step 1. Within MS Teams, select your profile on the top right corner. Step 2. Click on your current status (e.g., \"Available\") beside your profile picture. Step 3. From the Status drop-down menu, select one of the status options: Available : You are online and available to meet or chat. Busy : You are online but occupied by a call/meeting/task. Notification will still pop up. Do not disturb : You are online but don't want to be disturbed. Notifications will be hidden. Be right back : You've temporarily stepped away and will return shortly. Appear away : You appear to be away from your computer, and won't be responding until you're back online. Appear offline : You appear to be offline, and won't be responding until you're back online.", "Additional settings from the Status drop-down menu:\n\n\"Duration\" - This adds a time duration to a status. \"Reset status\" - This resets any current status back to \"available\". How to change your status message Step 1. In MS Teams, select your profile on the top right corner. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Set status message\". Step 3. In the text box, enter the message that you would like others to see. You can check off the \"Show when people message me\" option if you would like to display this message when others message or @mention you. You can also pick a \"duration\" to keep this status message under your profile (e.g., \"4 Hours\" or \"Today\"). Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change the theme and layout on your Microsoft Teams application. How to change the theme and layout on your MS Teams App Step 1. In MS Teams, select the three dots next to your profile picture on the top right corner. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Settings\". Step 3. In the \"Settings\" window, select the \"General\" tab from the left hand navigation menu to access the theme and layout settings. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change your profile picture on Microsoft services, including Teams. Your Microsoft profile picture can be changed on . It is then synced to SFU's Microsoft environment and throughout other Microsoft services, including Office and MS Teams.", "Note:\n\nIt may take up to few days for the changes to take effect in desktop apps, including Office and MS Teams. How To change your profile picture Step 1. Sign in to on a web browser. Step 2. Select your account profile located on the top right. Step 3. From the profile menu, select the circular profile picture with the camera icon. Step 4. Select \"Upload a new photo\" to add a new image. Step 5. Once it's ready, select \"Apply\" to save the changes to your profile picture. Step 6 . Congratulations! Your Microsoft profile picture has changed. Note : The changes to your profile picture will apply to all the Microsoft applications linked to your SFU account. It may take up to a few day for the changes to take effect in desktop applications, such as Office and MS Teams. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change your display name, title, or contact details for Microsoft 365 for faculty, staff, sponsored accounts, or faculty/staff who are also active students. How to Change Your Display Name, Title, or Other Contact Details How to Change Your Department Affiliation", "Note:\n\nIf you are a student , please see our student instructions page to change your display name. How To Change Your Display Name, Title, or Other Contact Details Your display name, title, and other contact details are obtained from your SFU Directory settings at www.sfu.ca/sfuds . Any changes made will apply to all Microsoft 365 services linked to your SFU account (SFU Mail, MS Teams, OneDrive, etc.), and you may be asked to re-log in to Microsoft 365 services to apply the changes. It may take up to one day for the changes to take effect. Note : You'll need to be connected to Campus Networks or", "SFU VPN\n\nto access SFU Directory Services. Alternatively, you may use Self Serve Profile Management ( mySFU ) if you wish to only change your display name. Step 1. Go to www.sfu.ca/sfuds on a web browser. Select \"Login\" and sign in to the SFU account you would like to modify. Step 2. Once you are logged in, click \"[ Edit My Entry ]\" on the top right hand corner of the screen. Step 3. Update your display name, title, or other contact details according to your needs. Click \"Save Changes\" to save your edits. Step 4. Once it's been saved, you will see a \"Saved Changes\" message show up above the form. How To Change Your Department Affiliation The department affiliation of your staff or faculty account in Microsoft 365 comes from data managed by Human Resources. If you feel that this needs to be corrected, please contact your department's technical support staff, or contact IT Service Desk .", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change your display name, title, or contact details for Microsoft 365 for faculty, staff, sponsored accounts, or faculty/staff who are also active students. How to Change Your Display Name, Title, or Other Contact Details How to Change Your Department Affiliation How to Change Your Display Name, Title, or Other Contact Details How to Change Your Display Name, Title, or Other Contact Details How to Change Your Department Affiliation How to Change Your Department Affiliation", "Note:\n\nIf you are a student , please see our student instructions page to change your display name.", "Note:\n\nIf you are a student , please see our student instructions page to change your display name.", "Note:\n\nstudent student instructions page", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change your display name for Microsoft 365 on student accounts.", "Note:\n\nIf you are a student who also has an active faculty/staff role (e.g., TA/RA), please see our faculty/staff instructions page to change your display name. How To Change Your Display Name Your display name on all Microsoft Services are obtained from your Self Serve Profile Management (mySFU) at my.sfu.ca . Any changes made will apply to all Microsoft 365 services linked to your SFU account (SFU Mail, MS Teams, OneDrive, etc.), and you may be asked to re-log in to Microsoft 365 services to apply the changes. It may take up to one day for the changes to take effect. Step 1. Go to my.sfu.ca on a web browser. You may be asked to log into SFU CAS. Step 2. Once you are logged in, under Contact Information , edit your Display Name . Step 3. Select Save changes to complete your change. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the differences between teams and channels on Microsoft Teams.", "DETAILS\n\nTeam", "A\n\nteam is a collection of people, conversations, files, and tools (all in one place) gathered to get something specific or a project done in your organization. There are 2 types", "of teams:\n\nPublic team Private team Anyone from the organization can join immediately without an approval from the team owner(s). Visible to everyone at SFU by searching in the Teams. Only people who have been approved by the team owner(s) can join the team. Team owner(s) and team members can invite people to join. Example : MS Teams Community of Practice Example : departmental team, project team, closed special interest group, etc.", "Note:\n\nAll the teams requested via the Request a Team webform are private teams, and they are hidden from the search in Teams. However, you can change your privacy status after the team has been created. Channels A team is made up of one or more channels. A channel is a space for discussion or conversations within a team, dedicated to a specific topic. It can be either public or private to the members with that team. Quick example For example, \" Department of Basket Weaving - SFU Teams\" is a private team that has many different channels (e.g., Communications, IT support, Onboarding). All the conversations, meetings, files, and apps in the \"Communications\" channel has to do with the topic of communications within the Department of Basket Weaving. This channel is also visible to everyone within the team. What are the limits in MS Teams (e.g., members, channels, and storage, chat, etc.)? Team Number of members: 25,000 Number of owners: 100 Number of channels: 200 (includes deleted channels) Number of private channels: 30 (includes deleted channels) Number of members in a private channel: 250 Storage capacity: 1 TB + 10 GB per user in team Number of teams a user can be a member of: 1000 Note. Deleted channels can be restored within 30 days. During these 30 days, a deleted channel continues to be counted towards the 200 channel or 30 private channel per team limit. After 30 days, a deleted channel and its content are permanently deleted and the channel no longer counts towards the per team limit. Private Chat Number of people in a private chat: 250 Number of people in a video or audio call from chat: 20 File storage capacity in a private chat: depends on your remaining OneDrive storage space For more information, please refer", "Note:\n\nchannel no longer counts towards the per team limit. Private Chat Number of people in a private chat: 250 Number of people in a video or audio call from chat: 20 File storage capacity in a private chat: depends on your remaining OneDrive storage space For more information, please refer to Microsoft's page on Limits and Specifications for Microsoft Teams . How are the teams at SFU structured Here are some suggestions on how you can structure your team(s) at SFU:", "Note:\n\nIf you need any assistance in determining the structure of your team, we recommend consulting your department's IT support points to align with internal processes/procedures (if any) on the team structure. 1. Short-term collaboration space for project, research, or campaign Common channels : Admin, Business Analysis, Project team, Technical, Communication, Planning, Reports, Documents, Safety, and Governance Note : You can consider creating a group chat if the purpose is to use it for a relatively short time (e.g., 2 - 4 weeks), or a channel within an existing team if all members are already a part of a same team. 2. Long-term collaboration space for department, office, or function Common channels", ":\n\nPublic: Functions/Projects, Document/Resources, Procedures/Forms/Templates, Announcement, Social/Fun/Chat/Random, Committees, Events, Meeting agendas/Meeting minutes, Reports, Admission, Marketing, IT, and Safety Private: Admin, Leadership, Projects, HR, Finance, Operations Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to leave a team on Microsoft Teams. You can leave a team at any time. The instructions to leave a team vary slightly depending on how your team adds/removes team members.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. Confirm with the team owner(s) on whether the team is manual-managed or maillist-managed team. Skip this step if you already have this information. Step 2. Follow the instructions below according to the type of team you are in: To leave a manual-managed team , follow the instructions outlined on Microsoft's page. To leave a maillist-managed team , ask the team owner to remove you from the maillist(s) that sync to your team. Individuals removed from the maillist will be automatically removed from the team within 2 hours. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to upload files on Microsoft Teams. There are a couple ways to upload files to Teams. Once you upload a file, you can also share a link to it . That way, you don't have to upload multiple copies of the same file to share it in different places.", "Note:\n\nFiles uploaded to team/channel will remain within that team regardless of the uploader's membership status. For more details on the file ownership, please visit the file ownership in a team vs. a chat page. How to upload a file to a channel conversation Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the channel you would like to upload this file. Step 2. Start a chat conversation, and select the \"file upload\" icon. Step 3. Upload your file by either selecting \"Browse Teams and Channels\", \"OneDrive\", or \"Upload from my computer\". Step 4. When you're ready, select \"Send\" icon at the bottom right corner. How to upload a file to a channel file tab Step 1. Go to the channel you would like to share this file. Step 2. Select the \"Files\" tab above the conversation window. Step 3. Select \"Upload\" or simply drag and drop to upload either a file or folder. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to access your files on Microsoft Teams. Within each team there are channels. Each channel has its own file folder where you can share files for that specific channel. How to access files from the channel file tab Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the channel with the file(s) you are looking for. Step 2. Select the \"Files\" tab above the conversation window. How to access files from File Library You can also access all the files shared in your team(s)/channel(s) on Microsoft Teams or stored in your OneDrive . Simply click on the \"Files\" tab on the left menu bar, and you'll have three views to choose from: The \" Recent\" view displays the files you've recently viewed or edited. \"Microsoft Teams\" displays all the files recently created or edited in your channels. \"Downloads\" contains the files you've downloaded from Teams since your last sign-in. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to share a file or folder link on Microsoft Teams. See the how-to instructions on the following areas: Share a file or folder link with people within your team Share a file or folder with people outside your team Change the sharing permission for a file or folder Recommendation on the usage of sharing permissions for MS Teams How to share a file or folder link with people within your team Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the file or folder you wish to share with your team members . Step 2. Right-click on the file or folder and select \"Copy link\" from the drop-down menu. Step 3. Paste the file or folder link to the location you wish to share (e.g., chat or channel conversation). How to share a file or folder with people outside of your team Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the file or folder you wish to share with individual(s) who are outside of your team. Step 2. Right-click on the file or folder you wish to share. Select \"Open in SharePoint\" from the drop-down menu. Step 3. Head over to the SharePoint document library launched on your web browser. Right-click on the file or folder you wish to share. Select \"Share\" from the drop-down menu. Step 4. In the \"Send link\" window, you can share the viewing permission for the file or folder by doing one of the following: Send a link to specific individual(s) by including their name, group or email Copy a link of this file/folder", "Note:\n\nThe default for sharing permission for all OneDrive files at SFU is set to \"People in Simon Fraser University (1sfu) with the link can view \". If you would like to change the sharing permission , please following the instructions in the section below. How to change the sharing permission for a file or folder Complete the steps from the section above to continue with the instructions below. Step 1. In the \"Send link\" window, select \">\" beside \"People in Simon Fraser University (1sfu) with the link can view\" to change the sharing permission for the file/folder link. Step 2. In the \"Link settings\" window, choose the sharing permission you would like to apply to this file/folder. You can also turn on/off for \"allow editing\" or \"block download\". Select \"Apply\" to apply the changes.", "Note:\n\nIf you are unsure which sharing permission to use, please see below for our recommendations on the usage of sharing permissions . Recommendations on the usage of sharing permissions for MS Teams Permissions Implications Recommended Usage People in SFU with the link Give access to any SFU users who receives this link , whether they received it directly from you or forwarded from someone else. For mixed files", ":\n\nData that may not be sensitive or confidential in nature, but should be restricted from to the general public or the media. People with existing access This does not change the permissions on the item. For internal files", ":\n\nUse this if you just want to send a link to somebody who already has access (i.e., team members). This does not change the permissions on the item. Specific people Gives access only to specific SFU users or external email addresses to use the link and access the file. If people forward the sharing invitation, only people who already have access to the item will be able to use the link. For internal files", ":\n\nData that could be sensitive or confidential in nature. Such data should be limited to employees and other authorized users. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines collaboration on files on Microsoft Teams. Teams makes it easy to share files and work on them together. Files uploaded and shared to a team are accessible to every member of the Team. You and your team members can co-edit Word, PowerPoint, or Excel documents. If you and your team members are editing it at the same time, any changes will be seamlessly merged as you work.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. In a channel conversation or in the Files tab, select \"More options\" icon next to the file. Step 2. Choose if you want to edit the file in Teams, on your desktop, or in browser. Note. Linux users won't be able to open files in the Office desktop app. For a visual walk-through on how you can collaborate on files, watch this video . Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the file ownership in a team and chat on Microsoft Teams.", "DETAILS\n\nThe ownership of files uploaded to Teams may vary depending on their location: Files uploaded to a team The files uploaded to a team belong to the team and are stored within a Teams connected team/channel site . members of the team/channel have full control of the files. The files uploaded to a team/channel will remain within that team regardless of the uploader's membership status, and will be kept until someone manually deletes them.", "Note:\n\nWe highly discourage customizing your Teams connected team/channel site (e.g., adding additional site components, changing site settings). Microsoft may apply changes on how MS Teams integrates with SharePoint Online to offer Teams connected team/channel site , and any customization may be removed/lost as a result. Files uploaded to a Teams chat The files uploaded to a Teams chat belong to the file uploader and are stored in the uploader's OneDrive . The file uploader has full control of the access to these files and can modify/restrict/remove the access at any time. The file may get removed once the file uploader lost access to OneDrive at SFU. Related Articles (1) File Lifecycle Management in MS Teams Explore recommendations about the use and storage of files in MS Teams from SFU's Archives and Records Management office. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to send a file, picture, or link in Microsoft Teams. When you're in a chat, you can send messages that include files , pictures , or links .", "Note:\n\nWe recommend uploading any team-related files to a team . The files uploaded to a chat will be stored in the uploader's OneDrive, and need to be managed by the owner of that OneDrive. For more details on the file ownership between a chat and a team, please visit the file ownership in a team vs. a chat page. How to send a file or picture Step 1. In MS Teams, select a chat you want to send a file or picture. Step 2. Select the \"Attach Files\" icon beneath the box where you type your message. Step 3. Select \"Upload from my computer\" to upload a file or picture from your computer, or select \"OneDrive\" to include a file or picture from your OneDrive. Step 4. When you're ready, select \"Send\" icon at the bottom right corner. How to insert a link in your text Step 1. In MS Teams, select a chat you want to insert a link in your message. Step 2. Select the \"Format\" icon beneath the box where you type your message. This expands your message box to display a complete list of the text formatting options. Step 3. Enter your message in the message box. Highlight the text you want to insert a link and select the \"Insert Link\" icon. Step 4. In the \"Insert link\" window, enter your link in the \"Address\" field and select \"Insert\". Step 5. When you're ready, select \"Send\" icon at the bottom right corner. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to start a call on Microsoft Teams. You can make one-on-one calls or group calls with anyone in Teams directly from a chat, without having to host a team meeting. Please note that access to a microphone is required for voice calls, and access to a microphone and a camera are required for video calls. This page outlines the following ways to make calls on MS Teams: Make a call from the \"Call\" tab , Make a call from a chat , or Make a call from an individual's profile .", "Note:\n\nOutside calling (i.e., dialing number) is not available at the moment. How to make a call from the \"Call\" tab Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the \"Call\" tab on the left menu bar. Step 2. Enter the name of the individual(s) you want to call in the \"call\" field. Once you are ready, select the \"Call\" button below the recent contacts to initiate the call. Step 3. A call window will pop up. Select \"Leave\" to cancel or end the call. How to make a call from a chat Step 1. In MS Teams, go to a chat with the individual(s) you want to call. Step 2. Select the \"Audio call\" or \"Video call\" icon on the top right corner of the chat window. Step 3. A call window will pop up. Select \"Leave\" to cancel or end the call. How to make a call from an individual's profile Step 1. Hover over someone's profile photo anywhere in Teams. Step 2. Select the \"Audio call\" or \"Video call\" icon from their contact card. Step 3. A call window will pop up. Select \"Leave\" to cancel or end the call. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines how to update sync folder when team name changes. If your team\u2019s name has changed and you have synced folder(s) from that team to your desktop, it needs to be updated to reflect the new team name.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. Launch OneDrive by clicking the OneDrive cloud icon in your taskbar notification area (Windows) or the menu bar (Mac OS). Step 2.", "On OneDrive, select the following:\n\nWindows : \"Help & Settings\" > \"Settings\" Mac OS : \"More\" > \"Preferences\" Step 3. Go to the \"Account\" tab, and select \"Stop sync\" for the folder(s) that is affected by the name change. Step 4. After the sync is removed, re-sync the folder(s) again. For more information on how to sync Teams files on your computer, visit the Sync Teams files on your desktop page. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Plan a Team", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article introduces planning a team for Microsoft Teams at SFU. Requesting a team for the first time? Unsure on how to create a team that matches your needs? Here is a step-by-step guide to plan and create a team.", "DETAILS\n\nMicrosoft Teams is available to all current SFU faculty, staff and graduate students with a Microsoft 365 account and have enrolled in Multi-factor Authentication . Please note that MS Teams should not be used for teaching and learning purposes. We have identified the following areas to consider when planning for your team: What is the team's purpose? What is the team name? Who will be the team owner(s)? How will you add/remove members? How will you structure the team? Once you've completed step 1 - 5, fill in a webform to submit a team request. Let's begin the planning! \u2192 Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Plan a Team", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the first step to planning a team, the team's purpose.", "DETAILS\n\nThe first step is to consider the purpose of creating this new team (e.g., for department, project, or temporary needs), and determine whether a new team meets your needs .", "Note:\n\nMS Teams is currently available to all current SFU faculty, staff and graduate students. MS Teams should not be used for teaching and learning purposes. Here is our recommendation depending on the purpose of your team: For project, campaign, or incident/issue For department/unit, office, or functions", "We recommend creating:\n\na group chat if the purpose is only for a relatively short time (e.g., 2 - 4 weeks). a channel within an existing team, if all members are already a part of a same team. a new team with corresponding channels, if the members are not a part of a same team.", "We recommend creating:\n\na new team with corresponding channels. If you'd like to proceed with creating a new team, please consult your department's IT support points to ensure the purpose of your team is unique and align with internal processes/procedures (if any) on the team name and structure. To proceed with creating a team, continue to the next step \u2192 Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Plan a Team", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the second step to planning a team, the team name.", "DETAILS\n\nOnce you've confirmed that creating a new team is the solution that meets your needs, the next step is to determine a name for your team .", "Note:\n\nThe suffix \"- SFU Teams\" will be automatically appended to all team names (e.g., \" IT Services M365 Team - SFU Teams \"). We recommend leaving out the word \"SFU\" or \"team\" from your team name. Your team name should follow the guidelines listed in the table below:", "Your team name must:\n\nYour team name must not", ":\n\nIndicate the purpose of the team. Be specific enough to be identifiable and separable from other teams. Contain only letters, numbers, hyphens and spaces. Contain less than 80 characters. Attempt to masquerade as another entity at SFU. Appear to have relationship to any academic activity. Contain profanity. Contain any special characters, except hyphens. I have my team name ready, Let's identify the team owner(s) \u2192 Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Plan a Team", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the third step to planning a team, the team owners.", "DETAILS\n\nEach team needs to have at least one team owner who has elevated privileges on the team. Only current SFU faculty, staff or graduate student who has enrolled in", "MFA\n\ncan become a team owner. To determine the team owner(s) of your team, identify at least one individual who will be taking responsibilities of the following items: Add or remove members/guests. Manage member/guest permissions in the team. Answer questions or provide training to members/guests on Teams. Add, delete, or manage channels. Archive or delete the team when team is no longer needed.", "Note:\n\nFor business continuity purpose, we highly recommend having at least two active team owners at any given time. I've identified my team owner(s), let's determine how they'll add/remove members \u2192 Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Plan a Team", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the fourth step to planning a team, the approach to adding or removing members.", "DETAILS\n\nYou can choose one of the two ways to manage your team membership", ":\n\nManually-managed teams : Team owner(s) add / remove members via the \"Manage Team\" setting in MS Teams. Group-managed team : Team owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Groups - i.e., individuals are added/removed according to the group(s) synced to the team.", "Note:\n\nThe team membership management process chosen when requesting a team can always be changed later on. We recommend choosing the corresponding process below if your team's needs match any of the points on either side: Choose \" manually-managed team \" Choose \"group -managed team \"", "If your team needs to:\n\nControl membership directly via MS Teams , Manage a small group of members (e.g., less than 20 accounts), or Want to change into a public team in the future.", "If your team needs to:\n\nControl membership exclusively via the security group(s) synced, Manage a large group of members (e.g., more than 20 accounts), or Add one or more sponsored accounts on your team. For a detailed comparison between the two processes, please visit the manually- vs. group-managed teams page. I've selected a method. Let's draft a structure for the team \u2192 Additional tips for group-managed teams If you plan on syncing a new security group to your new team, please create and activate it prior to submitting a team request . Submitting a team request with an unactivated security group can lead to technical issues in your team. If you plan on syncing your department's security group to your new team, we recommend nesting your department's security group inside a new security group. This ensures that people who are outside of your department can be added to your team without being added to your department's security group. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Plan a Team", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the fifth step to planning a team, the team structure.", "DETAILS\n\nYou are just one step away from submitting a team request! As the final step, draft a list of the channels you'd like to create in this team and decide which channels will be public or private . These channels will inform your team members/guests on the location they can start conversations and collaborate. Visit the Teams & Channels page for more details on teams, channels, and suggestions on how you can structure your team(s) at SFU.", "Note:\n\nTo help team members to familiarize the new team once they are added, we recommend setting up your channels as soon as the team has been created. Congratulations! You are now ready to submit a team request \u2192 Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Plan a Team", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the completion of the plan a team step-by-step guide.", "DETAILS\n\nCongratulations, you are now ready to submit a team request! Fill out the webform below to submit a team request. A confirmation email will be sent to you once the request has been received. All requests are processed within 2 business days. You will be notified by email once the process has been completed. Note : Only staff or faculty can submit a request. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Pixlr Pixlr DreamWeaver Phoenix Code Phoenix Code Phoenix Code Lightroom RawTherapee RawTherapee RawTherapee Illustrator Inkscape Inkscape Inkscape InDesign Scribus Scribus Scribus Premiere Pro kdenlive kdenlive kdenlive After Effects Blender Blender Blender Audition Audacity Audacity Audacity", "Software and Application Distribution", "OVERVIEW\n\nAdobe Creative Cloud (CC) is a suite of powerful software tools used by creatives around the world for graphic design, video editing, web development, and more. As a student, gaining access to Adobe CC can be a valuable resource for your academic and creative endeavors. Adobe offers Shared Device Licensing (SDL), which allows students to use Adobe CC software in computer labs without the need for a personal subscription. Details Options for Students Frequently Asked Questions", "DETAILS\n\nAdobe Creative Cloud products including Acrobat Pro are installed in identified SFU IT computer labs and some faculty/school spaces. An SFU Adobe ID is required to log into the Adobe Creative Cloud Desktop application to use Adobe titles on shared computers in labs. To get started, learn how to create your SFU Adobe ID . Students are encouraged to complete the process as early as possible since account creation may take up to 24 hour s to complete.", "NOTE\n\n: Creation of an SFU Adobe ID does not provision a personal license for Adobe Creative Cloud products for use on personal devices.", "NOTE\n\n: Not all features are available in the Higher Education edition of Adobe Creative Cloud products.", "OPTIONS FOR STUDENTS\n\nStudents seeking to use graphic design tools have numerous options available. Purchase Adobe with educational discount Use alternative open-source products Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) What software can i use? Your SFU Adobe ID allows you to make use of Adobe CC titles like Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere, InDesign, Lightroom and more in supported computer labs on campus . Depending on the computer lab, alternatives may be available as well. Just remember, you need to sign into Adobe Creative Cloud Desktop to use the applications. CAN I USE MY SFU ADOBE ID to install and use Adobe CC ON MY PERSONAL COMPUTER? No. The license provided to students for Adobe Creative Cloud(CC) requires a special version of Adobe CC that is not publicly available. Your access to Adobe CC using your SFU Adobe ID only works at the identified computer spaces noted above or in computer labs identified by your faculty.", "CAN I USE MY SFU ADOBE ID ON MY PERSONAL COMPUTER?\n\nNo. The license provided to students for Adobe Creative Cloud(CC) requires a special version of Adobe CC that is not publicly available. Your access to Adobe CC using your SFU Adobe ID only works at the identified computer spaces noted above or in computer labs identified by your faculty. I have data stored in adobe cloud, can i use it on campus? All Cloud services such as font access and in-app libraries are disabled. However, users can visit assets.adobe.com to manually access, upload, and download cloud files. Where can i learn about how to use Adobe creative cloud products? Adobe offers a range of tutorials and training through their website . You can also visit Adobe's YouTube channel and search specific topics.", "Software and Application Distribution Office", "OVERVIEW\n\nExplore online training resources for Microsoft Office apps, such as Word, Excel, Outlook and more.", "GENERAL SET UP & BASICS\n\nSign up & install Microsoft 365 Change display name for Microsoft services - Students Change display name, title, or contact details for Microsoft Services - Faculty/Staff Purchasing additional Microsoft services", "WORD\n\nHelp & Learning Portal Video Training Linkedin Learning", "EXCEL\n\nHelp & Learning Portal Video Training Linkedin Learning", "POWERPOINT\n\nHelp & Learning Portal Video Training Linkedin Learning", "ONENOTE\n\nHelp & Learning Portal Video Training Linkedin Learning", "OUTLOOK\n\nHelp & Learning Portal Video Training Linkedin Learning", "PUBLISHER\n\nHelp & Learning Portal Video Training Linkedin Learning Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Office Microsoft Office (or MS Office) is a collection of productivity tools that includes Outlook, Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Publisher. Most applications within the Office suite are available on desktop, mobile app, or on browsers via cloud services.", "Software and Application Distribution Office", "OVERVIEW\n\nBrowse frequently asked questions about Microsoft Office at SFU such as what happens when you leave the university, who is eligible and more. Frequently Asked Questions about Microsoft Office", "FACULTY AND STAFF\n\nMS Office is available to all current SFU faculty and staff with a Microsoft 365 account . STUDENTS MS Office is available to all current SFU students with a Microsoft 365 account . Note. \" Students\" include graduate students (as defined by the Faculty of Graduate Studies) and undergraduate students enrolled in a degree granting course (as defined by Student Services). At this time, Continuing Studies students are not eligible.", "OTHER\n\nSFU retirees, emeritus and adjunct professors are eligible for Office 365 online to help facilitate working with the University community. This furnishes all the Office services, but does not allow for downloadable desktop installs of Office. The Office suite is still available in a browser.", "ARE THERE ANY COST TO USING MS OFFICE?\n\nMS Office applications are free for eligible SFU faculty, staff, and students.", "HOW DO I GET ACCESS MS OFFICE?\n\n1. Sign up for Microsoft 365 MS Office is available to all current SFU faculty, staff, and students with a Microsoft 365 account. Visit the Getting Started page for instructions on how to sign up for an SFU Microsoft 365 account. 2. Access Microsoft Office applications MS Office Web : Visit M365 Portal > Select any of the Office apps MS Office Desktop : Launch any of the Office software on your desktop (e.g., Word, Excel)", "INDIVIDUAL-USE\n\nVisit the Getting Started page for instructions on how to install Microsoft Office on your individual-use device .", "UNIVERSITY-MANAGED\n\nIf you are an SFU faculty/staff and you hold a university-managed device , Microsoft Office applications should be pre-installed on your device. Please submit a service request to the IT Service Desk or contact your local IT representative for software inquiries/installations.", "WHAT IF I LEAVE THE UNIVERSITY?\n\nAccess to Microsoft 365 will be available as long as you are a current faculty, staff, or student. Once you are no longer eligible in this manner, your login ID will become invalid for the installed software on your device(s). Note. Under the terms of Microsoft\u2019s License Agreement, you are obligated to uninstall Microsoft applications when you are no longer eligible to receive Microsoft 365 for free.", "WHAT IF I'M NOT ELIGIBLE?\n\nSFU's agreement for Microsoft 365 covers current students, faculty, and full-time continuing staff. Unfortunately, the additional cost for covering the entire University community (including retirees and emeritus professors) is prohibitive. We apologize for any inconvenience. If your department needs to collaborate with you, it would be necessary for you to make arrangements to purchase the software, or to use the software on a computer physically located on campus. However, your status with the University as a retiree or emeritus professor also entitles you to education pricing directly from Microsoft. Related Services / Offerings (2) Microsoft Office Microsoft Office (or MS Office) is a collection of productivity tools that includes Outlook, Word, PowerPoint, Excel, and Publisher. Most applications within the Office suite are available on desktop, mobile app, or on browsers via cloud services. Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution", "Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching, or ADT4T (formerly known as Microsoft Imagine) is a collection of developer tools and resources that supports students in Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics-related programs.", "Note:\n\nLicenses to ADT4T are purchased and administered by individual faculties and schools at SFU . Please contact your faculty for license-related inquiries.", "DEPARTMENTS WITH ADT4T AGREEMENTS\n\nThe following faculties are known to be participating in their own Microsoft ADT4T agreements. For more information, please contact your faculty. Beedie school of Business Faculty of Applied Science School of Interactive Arts and Technology", "ACCESS AZURE DEV TOOLS FOR TEACHING\n\nTo access Azure Dev Tools for Teaching, sign in using your SFU Microsoft 365 account", ":\n\nLog in to Azure Dev Tools for Teaching Portal Need a SFU M365 account? Visit the Getting Started in Microsoft 365 page for instructions on how to sign up for an SFU Microsoft 365 account. I have a SFU M365 account, how do I log in? At the Microsoft login screen, enter your SFU email address (i.e., yourSFUcomputingID@sfu.ca ). You will then be re-directed to", "SFU CAS\n\nlogin screen. Log in using your SFU Computing ID and password. FAQs", "IT'S DISPLAYING AN \"THERE IS A PROBLEM WITH YOUR ACCOUNT\" ERROR MESSAGE.\n\nIf you see an \"There is a problem with your account\" error message after logging in to the Azure Dev Tools for Teaching, please submit a ticket to Microsoft via the Microsoft's Support Request page or call them at (866) 643-9421.", "DOES AZURE DEV TOOLS FOR TEACHING INCLUDE VISIO AND PROJECT?\n\nYes. However, Visio and project must be obtained via ADT4T and not provided as part of the Microsoft Office bundle. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article shows a comparison chart between a manually-managed team and a group-managed team. There are two team membership management processes available for selection when creating your team . These processes will determine the way you add or remove members for your team.", "Note:\n\nThe team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . If you wish to change your membership approach, see Change between Group-managed and Manually-managed Team . Manually Managed Team Group Managed Team Definition Team owner(s) add / remove members via the \"Manage Team\" setting in MS Teams. Individuals added will receive a notification via MS Teams and an email notification. Team owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Groups - i.e., individuals are added/removed according to the security group(s) synced to the team. Individuals added will receive a notification via MS Teams. Recommended Usage Ideal for small groups and units (i.e., less than 20 people) where the team owner(s) can easily manage the onboarding access for a small number of individuals. Ideal for relatively larger groups (i.e., more than 20 people), department teams , and/or teams that need to add sponsored account(s) as team members. Sponsored Accounts Unable to add sponsored accounts. Sponsored accounts can be added . External Users Team owner(s) can add/remove external users (i.e., guests) via the \"Manage Team\" menu in MS teams. Request to Join the Team Team owner(s) can add new members directly via MS Teams by accepting or denying the requests to join a team. Unable to add new members directly via MS Teams by accepting or denying requests to join a team. Public Team Can be changed into public teams - i.e., anyone from the organization can join immediately without an approval from the team owner(s). Cannot be changed into public teams. All members will need to be added by the team owner via the security group(s) synced to the team . Leave a Team Member(s) can leave a team via MS Teams at any time. Member(s) need to ask the team owner(s) to remove them from the team\u2019s group to leave", "Note:\n\nAll members will need to be added by the team owner via the security group(s) synced to the team . Leave a Team Member(s) can leave a team via MS Teams at any time. Member(s) need to ask the team owner(s) to remove them from the team\u2019s group to leave a team. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change the team description on Microsoft Teams. A team description should briefly outline the purpose and usage of the team. It's displayed below the team name in MS Teams.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to change the team description and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Edit team\". Step 3. In the \"Edit team\" window, select the text box below \"Description\" to edit your team's description. Please include a detailed but concise description of your team so team members are clear on the purpose and the usage of the team. The team description should less than 1000 characters. Step 4. Select \"Update\" to save your changes, or select \"Cancel\" to cancel the edits. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines managing team privacy status on Microsoft Teams.", "There are 2 types of privacy status for the teams:\n\npublic team and private team. Public teams Anyone from the organization can join immediately without an approval from the team owner(s). Public teams are visible to everyone in the organization by searching in the Teams. Example : MS Teams Community of Practice Private teams All the teams requested via the Request a Team webform are private teams, and they are hidden from the search in Teams. Only people who have been approved by the team owner(s) can join the team. Team owner(s) and team members can invite people to join. Examples : departmental team, project team, closed special interest group, etc.", "Note:\n\nIf you have a group-managed team , changing the team into a public team does not open up the ability for anyone in the organization to join immediately without approval. For more information on how to add members to a group-managed team, visit the Add Members page. Step 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to manage the privacy status and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Edit team\". Step 3. In the \"Edit team\" window, select the drop-down below \"Privacy\" to manage the privacy status. Step 4. Select \"Update\" to save your changes, or select \"Cancel\" to cancel the edits. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines managing team settings and permissions on Microsoft Teams. As a team owner, you have the ability to manage and adjust many team settings and permissions. For example, some settings include members, pending requests, channels, settings, analytics and apps for your team.", "Note:\n\nAs one of the first steps after setting up a team, we recommend checking the permission settings for members and guests to ensure they align with your team\u2019s work processes and strategies. For instance, here are some items to consider and modify using the instructions provided below: Do you want the members to have the ability to create, update, delete or restore channels? Do you want the guests to have the ability to create, update and delete channels?", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to manage and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 3. Under the \"Settings\" tab, check or uncheck the options or permissions you want to manage: Change the team picture , Set Member permissions (e.g., ability to create, update, delete or restore channels), Determine the ability to use @mentions in a channel, Set Guest permissions (e.g., ability to create, update, or delete channels), and Enable team members to send GIFs, emoji, and stickers . Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to add a member to a team on Microsoft Teams. Team owner(s) should add members according to the team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . Add a member to a manually-managed team Add a member to a group-managed team", "Note:\n\nThe team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . If you wish to change your membership approach, see Change between Group-managed and Manually-managed Team . How to add a member to a manually-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a manually-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove", "members via the \"Manage Team\" setting in MS Teams):\n\nStep 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to add members and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Add members\". Step 3. Type in a name or an email address of the person you would to add. You can add more than one member at the same time. Select \"Add\" to add the member(s) to your team. Step 4. After you have added your members, select \"Close\" to return to the team. How to add a member to a group-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a group-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Groups", "):\n\nStep 1. Go the SFU Groups . Step 2. Add the person to the security group that syncs to your team. Members added to the security group will be automatically synced and added to your team within two hours. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to accept or deny requests to join a team on Microsoft Teams. Team members can send requests to add members to a team, and team owners will receive an alert for any pending requests. As a team owner, you have the ability to accept or deny requests", "to join your team:\n\nIf you have a manually-managed team (i.e., team Owner(s) add / remove members via the \"Manage Team\" setting in MS Teams.), you can add members by accepting the pending requests you received on Teams. See the instructions below for more information . If you have a group-managed team (i.e., team Owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Groups ), this functionality to accept/deny requests will not work. To add any members to your team, please add them via SFU Groups .", "Note:\n\nIf you have a group-managed team (i.e., team Owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Groups ), this functionality to accept/deny requests will not work. To add any members to your team, please add them via SFU Groups . Step 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to manage and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 3. In the \"Pending Requests\" tab, select \"Accept\" or \"Deny\" to approve or decline the requests. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to add a role or sponsored account to your team on Microsoft Teams. Role/sponsored account can be used on MS Teams if they have signed up for a Microsoft 365 account and are provided a MS Teams license.", "Note:\n\nWe recommend using your individual account unless your team\u2019s processes or procedures requires the use of a sponsored/role account. To a group-managed team Step 1. Understand the following limitations on using a role/sponsored account", "on MS Teams:\n\nRole/sponsored account cannot be a team owner, and can be only added to a team as a team member. MS Teams licenses are granted to role/sponsored accounts via security groups on SFU Groups, so role/sponsored account can only be added to a group-managed team (i.e., automatically add members to your team if they are a part of the security group). Step 2. Enroll the role/sponsored account into SFU's MFA and sign up for an Microsoft 365 account . Step 3. Go the SFU Groups . Step 4. Add the role/sponsored to the security group that sync to your team. Members added to the security group will be automatically synced and added to your team within 2 hours. To a Manually-managed Team By default, role accounts do not have access to MS Teams and cannot be added into manually-managed teams (i.e., team owners manually add/remove members via the Teams application). To provide role account(s) access to MS Teams, the Team Owner will need to take the following the steps: Create a new security group which will be used to provide role account(s) with the access to Microsoft Teams. On the security group, include the role account(s) you would like to add to the team. Submit a ticket to IT Service Desk", "and include the following information:\n\nSubject line : \"Microsoft Teams - Adding role accounts to a manually-managed team\" Message body : \u201cI would like to add role account(s) to my manually-managed team. The security group name is <your-group>.\u201d Ensure that the account(s) have enrolled in SFU's MFA and signed up for a Microsoft 365 account. Once the request is processed, it will take up to 2 hours for MS Teams access to be granted. On MS Teams, you should be able to add the role account(s) as members to your team. The account(s) will also need to remain on the security group (created in step 1) in order to retain Microsoft Teams access.", "Note:\n\nGoing forward, you may include additional role account(s) to the security group (created in step 1) to provide access to MS Teams. Please ensure that the account(s) have enrolled in SFU's MFA and signed up for a Microsoft 365 account.", "For an alternative approach:\n\nChange your membership approach on your team to group-managed and follow the instructions for group-managed teams. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "Each team needs to have at least one team owner who has elevated privileges on the team. Team owner(s) can add another team owner according to the team membership management process chosen when requesting a team", ":\n\nAdd another team owner for a manually-managed team Add another team owner for a group-managed team The team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . If you wish to change your membership approach, see Change between Group-managed and Manually-managed Team .", "Note:\n\nFor business continuity purpose, we highly recommend having at least two active team owners at any given time. How to add another team owner for a manually-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a manually-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove members via the \"Manage Team\" setting in MS Teams.). Step 1. Make sure the person you'd like to make as a team owner is already a member of your team. If not, visit the Add a Member page to add them to your team. Step 2. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to add another team owner and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 3. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 4. Under the \"Members\" tab, locate the team member you would like to make as a team owner. Change their role from \"Member\" to \"Owner\". How to add another team owner for a group-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a group-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Groups ). Step 1. Make sure the person you'd like to make as a team owner is already a member of your team. If not, visit the Add a Member page to add them to your team. Step 2. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to add another team owner and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 3. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 4. Under the \"Members\" tab, locate the team member you would like to make as a team owner. Change their role from \"Member\" to \"Owner\". Step 5. Go the SFU Groups . Make the newly added team owner as a manager of the security group that sync to your team. Related Services / Offerings (1)", "Note:\n\nlocate the team member you would like to make as a team owner. Change their role from \"Member\" to \"Owner\". Step 5. Go the SFU Groups . Make the newly added team owner as a manager of the security group that sync to your team. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "Team owner(s) should remove members according to the team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . Remove a member from a manually-managed team Remove a member from a group-managed team The team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . If you wish to change your membership approach, see Change between Group-managed and Manually-managed Team .", "Note:\n\nRemoving a member will not automatically remove any of the files they have uploaded to the team/channel . All files uploaded to a team/channel will be owned and managed by that team/channel until someone manually deletes the files. How to remove a member from a manually-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a manually-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove members via the \"Manage Team\" setting in MS Teams). Step 1. Prior to removing a team member, notify them and ensure that the document storage and retention policies in your faculty/department/unit are addressed. Step 2. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to remove members and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 3. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 4. Under the \"Members\" tab, locate the member you would like to remove and click the \"X\" to the far right of the person. MS Teams will not send a notification to the member removed from your team. How to remove a member from a group-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a group-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Groups ). Step 1. Prior to removing a team member, notify them and ensure that the document storage and retention policies in your faculty/department/unit are addressed. Step 2. Go the SFU Groups . Step 3. Remove the person from the security group that syncs to your team. Individuals removed from the security group will be automatically synced and removed from your team within 2 hours. MS Teams will not send a notification to the member removed from your team. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to", "Note:\n\nand removed from your team within 2 hours. MS Teams will not send a notification to the member removed from your team. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "Team owner(s) should remove another team owner according to the team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . Remove another team owner from a manually-managed team Remove another team owner from a group-managed team The team membership management process chosen when requesting a team . If you wish to change your membership approach, see Change between Group-managed and Manually-managed Team .", "Note:\n\nFor business continuity purpose, we highly recommend having at least two active team owners at any given time. How to remove another team owner from a manually-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a manually-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove members via the \"Manage Team\" setting in MS Teams.). Step 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to remove another team owner and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 3. Under the \"Members\" tab, locate the team owner you would like to remove in the \"Owners\" list. Change their role from \"Owner\" to \"Member\". Step 4. Go to the \"Members and guests\" list, and select the \"X\" to the far right of the individual to remove them from the team. How to remove another team owner from a group-managed team Follow the instructions below if you have a group-managed team (i.e., team owner(s) add / remove members via SFU Group ). Step 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to remove another team owner and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 3. Under the \"Members\" tab, locate the team owner you would like to remove in the \"Owners\" list. Change their role from \"Owner\" to \"Member\". Step 4. Go the SFU Groups . Step 5. Remove the person from the security group that syncs to your team. Individuals removed from the security group will be automatically synced and removed from your team within 2 hours. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU", "Note:\n\nthe security group will be automatically synced and removed from your team within 2 hours. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "Guests are people from outside of your organization that a team owner invites, such as external partners or vendors to join the team. For more details on guest capabilities in Teams, visit Guest capabilities in Teams page.", "Team owners have the ability to:\n\nAdd a guest to a team Remove a guest from a team", "Note:\n\nRemoving a guest will not automatically remove any of the files they have uploaded to the team/channel . All files uploaded to a team/channel will be owned and managed by that team/channel until someone manually deletes the files. How to add a guest to your team Step 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to add a guest and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Add member\". Step 3. In the pop-up window, enter the guest's email address and click the \"Add [email address] as a guest\" drop-down item.", "Note:\n\nAnyone with a business or consumer email account, such as Outlook, Gmail, or others, can join your team as a guest. If the guest doesn\u2019t have a Microsoft account associated with their email address, they will be directed to create one for free. Step 4. Add a display name for your guest, if needed. Select the \"pencil\" icon to add a display name that everyone will recognize.", "Note:\n\nPlease add an identifiable display name for your guest, if needed. You won't be able to add or modify the guest's display name after adding them to the team. Step 5. Once you are ready, click \"Add\" to add the guest to your team. An invitation will then be sent to your guest via email. For more information on the steps that your guest need to take to join, see the Join a team as a guest page. You can also share this link with your guest to guide them through the process. How to remove a guest from your team Step 1. Prior to removing a guest, notify them and ensure that the document storage and retention policies in your faculty/department/unit are addressed. Step 2. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to remove a guest and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 3. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 4. Under the \"Members\" tab, locate the guest you would like to remove and click the X to the far right of the person. MS Teams will not send a notification to the guest removed from your team. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to delete your team on Microsoft Teams.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to delete and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Delete a team\".", "Note:\n\nPlease keep in mind that once you delete a team, the corresponding SharePoint site and files will also be deleted. In additional, any app(s) affiliated with the team will also be deleted. Made a mistake? Only service admins can recover deleted teams for up to 30 days. To restore a deleted team, please submit a ticket to the IT Service Desk . Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to archive or restore an archive team on Microsoft Teams. You can archive a team when it\u2019s no longer active, but you want to keep it around for reference or to reactivate in the future. You can also restore a team , if you made a mistake. The conversations and files in the team become read-only once you archive it. All of the team activities are frozen once the team is archived: Team members will no longer have the ability to start new conversations, reply to posts, add or remove channels, or add apps. Team members will still have the ability to search through the content of an archived team, and keep it as a favourite.", "Note:\n\nOnly team owner(s) can archive and restore a team. Once the team is archived, team owner(s) will still have the ability to add or remove members, update roles, and delete, renew, or restore an archived team . How to archive a team Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the \"Teams\" tab on the left menu bar. Step 2. At the bottom right corner of the list, select the \"Manage teams\" icon. Step 3. Under the \"Active\" list, locate the team you want to archive and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 4. From the settings drop-down menu, select \"Archive team\". Step 5. To prevent individuals from editing the content in the SharePoint site associated with the team, select \"Make the SharePoint site read-only for team members\" > \"Archive\".", "Note:\n\nTeams owner(s) still have the ability to edit the content from the archived team. How to restore an archived team Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the \"Teams\" tab on the left menu bar. Step 2. At the bottom right corner of the list, select the \"Manage teams\" icon. Step 3. Under the \"Archived\" list, locate the archived team you want to restore and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 4. From the settings drop-down menu, select \"Restore team\". Related Articles (1) Team (Microsoft 365 Group) Expiration and Renewal Overview about expiration of a Team (Microsoft 365 group) at SFU and how they can be renewed. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to delete or restore a channel on your team on Microsoft Teams. As a team owner, you have the ability to: Delete a channel Restore a channel How to delete a channel Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the channel you would like to delete and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Delete this channel\". Keep in mind that once you delete a channel, you also lose its entire conversation history: For a deleted standard channel, your files will still show up on your team's SharePoint site under the corresponding folder. For a deleted private channel, the channel\u2019s SharePoint site and all the associated content (i.e., files and folders) will be deleted and inaccessible.", "Note:\n\nDeleted channels can be restored within 30 days . During the 30-day period, a deleted channel continues to be counted towards the 200 channel or 30 private channel per team limit. After 30 days, a deleted channel and its content are permanently deleted and the channel no longer counts towards the per team limit. How to restore a channel Deleted channels can be restored within 30 days. Step 1. In MS Teams, go to the team with the channel you would like to restore and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Manage team\". Step 3. Under the \"Channels\" tab, expand the \"Deleted\" list of channels. Select \"Restore\" for any channels you would like to restore. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams Team Owners", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change your team name on Microsoft Teams. A team name allows users to identify a specific team from their team list. A \"- SFU Teams\" suffix is automatically appended to all team names. Can I shorten or remove the \"- SFU Teams\" suffix? The \" - SFU Teams \" suffix is a naming standard that cannot be changed at this time. This suffix allows for technical scalability and minimizes any potential technical issues (e.g., naming conflicts) related to Microsoft 365 and other SFU services. In addition, this allows individuals who have in multiple teams across different organizations to differentiate which team is an SFU team.", "NAME CHANGE IS NOT RECOMMENDED UNLESS IT'S ESSENTIAL\n\nAny changes to your team name will only be reflected via the display name on MS Teams. It will not change the corresponding SharePoint site's address (i.e., your team\u2019s SharePoint address will remain with the old name), nor the team's email address. It is not recommended to change your team name as it may lead to potential confusion.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1. In MS Teams, go to a team you would like to change the team name and select the \"More options\" icon. Step 2. From the drop-down menu, select \"Edit team\". Step 3. In the \"Edit team\" window, select the text box below \"Team name\" to edit your team's name. The text below shows a preview of the full team name with the suffix. Step 4. Select \"Update\" to save your changes, or select \"Cancel\" to cancel the edits. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams", "OVERVIEW\n\nBrowse the frequently asked questions about Microsoft Teams. General Who can use MS Teams?", "FACULTY AND STAFF\n\nMS Teams is available to current SFU faculty and staff with a Microsoft 365 account . STUDENTS MS Teams is available to current graduate students with a Microsoft 365 account .", "OTHER\n\nThere are no current plans to provide access to SFU alumni, retirees, emeritus and adjunct professors. When will MS Teams be available for undergraduate students and coursework? MS Teams will remain unavailable to undergraduate students until the university is ready to explore it as a platform for enhanced learning. Are there any cost to using MS Teams? Microsoft Teams is free for eligible SFU faculty, staff and graduate students. How do I install MS Teams on my Individual-use or university-managed device(s)? Individual-use To download Microsoft Teams on your individual-use device , visit Microsoft Team's download page for more information. University-managed If you are an SFU faculty/staff and you hold a university-managed device , Microsoft Teams should be pre-installed on your device. Please contact the IT Service Desk for any software inquiries/installations. How do I get access MS Teams? 1. Access Microsoft Teams MS Teams Web : Visit M365 Portal > Select MS Teams icon MS Teams Desktop : Launch the software on your desktop What are the limits in MS Teams (e.g., members, channels, and storage, chat, etc.)? Please refer to Microsoft's page on Limits and Specifications for Microsoft Teams . Can I shorten or remove the \"- SFU Teams\" suffix? The \" - SFU Teams \" suffix is a naming standard that cannot be changed at this time. This suffix allows for technical scalability and minimizes any potential technical issues (e.g., naming conflicts) related to Microsoft 365 and other SFU services. In addition, this allows individuals who have in multiple teams across different organizations to differentiate which team is an SFU team. Team membership Can role accounts sign up for MS Teams? Our recommended approach is to use your individual account unless your team\u2019s processes or procedures requires the use of sponsored/role account. If you still wish to sign", "OTHER\n\nmultiple teams across different organizations to differentiate which team is an SFU team. Team membership Can role accounts sign up for MS Teams? Our recommended approach is to use your individual account unless your team\u2019s processes or procedures requires the use of sponsored/role account. If you still wish to sign up and add a role account to your team, please see Add a role/sponsored account . How can I add a role account to my manually-managed team, and not managed by group? For details, visit Add a role/sponsored account to learn how to add a role or sponsored account to your team. Can I collaborate with guests outside of SFU? You can invite guests or external users (i.e., individuals that do not have an SFU account) to join your team; The access capabilities for guests can be managed by the team owner(s) within Teams. Can a non-SFU user (i.e., guest user) upload files to a chat on MS Teams? No; The ability to upload and store files within a Teams chat relies on the use of the individual\u2019s OneDrive. As Microsoft does not provide non-SFU users with the access to OneDrive at SFU, they cannot upload a file to a Teams chat. Guest have the ability to perform the following on MS Teams: Guests can preview or open files from a Teams chat, Guests can send screenshots to a Teams chat, and Guests have access to all the functionalities within channels , including uploading files and sharing files to channels. File sharing and storage What is the difference between uploading files to a team versus a chat on Teams? The ownership of files uploaded to Teams may vary depending on their location: The files uploaded to a team/channel belong to the team/channel and are stored within a Teams connected team", "OTHER\n\nFile sharing and storage What is the difference between uploading files to a team versus a chat on Teams? The ownership of files uploaded to Teams may vary depending on their location: The files uploaded to a team/channel belong to the team/channel and are stored within a Teams connected team site . The files uploaded to a chat belong to the file uploader and are stored in the uploader's OneDrive . For more information, please visit the File ownership in a team vs. a chat page. What is the SharePoint site associated with a team? Can we customize it? The functionality to manage and store files uploaded to MS Teams is powered by SharePoint Online. When you create a team in MS Teams, a Microsoft 365 connected team site gets automatically created in SharePoint: For every public/standard channel you create within your team, a folder is automatically created in SharePoint Online under the Teams connected team site . For every private channel you create within your team, a separate team site is automatically created in SharePoint Online called Teams connected channel sites , or just channel sites . When you click on the 'Files' tab within the channels of your team, the files you see are either stored in a Teams connected team site or Teams connected channel sites. If you wish to customize your site, self-serve guides are available at our SharePoint Online How-To Guides . What is the relationship between Teams and SharePoint Online? Teams & SharePoint Online When you create a team in MS Teams, a Teams connected team/channel site gets automatically created in SharePoint Online. This site is used as a file repository by MS Teams. When you click on the 'Files' tab within team channels, the files you see are either stored in your Teams", "OTHER\n\nWhen you create a team in MS Teams, a Teams connected team/channel site gets automatically created in SharePoint Online. This site is used as a file repository by MS Teams. When you click on the 'Files' tab within team channels, the files you see are either stored in your Teams connected site or Teams connected channel sites. For more details, visit our SharePoint Online FAQs . I am currently using SharePoint On-Premises, should I start using SharePoint online? If your department already has a SharePoint On-premise (2019) (sharepoint.sfu.ca), we recommend that you switch to using SharePoint Online or another tool at your own convenience as part of the SharePoint 2019 migration . Can MS Teams replace the use shared drives or SFU Vault? MS Teams has a variety different benefits that may not align with other storage solutions. Shared Drives are mostly used for performance requirements and SFU Vault may be used because of WebDAV support. Depending on your needs, these storage solutions may not be able to replace MS Teams. Apps and Plug-ins Can I use premium apps, such as Visio and Project, within Teams? Yes, premium Microsoft apps, such as Visio and Project, can be used within Teams. You will need to purchase the corresponding license(s) and install the application(s) onto your computer to get the app to work within Teams. For more information, please contact your department's IT support staff. Can I use third-party plugins on my team? At this time, all third-party plugins cannot be used with MS Teams. All third-party plugins need to be carefully evaluated and reviewed to ensure they are compliant with the SFU's Information Security Guidelines . As a result, we have disabled this functionality and it may be addressed as a future improvement. Troubleshooting Why are new team members disappearing after", "OTHER\n\nwith MS Teams. All third-party plugins need to be carefully evaluated and reviewed to ensure they are compliant with the SFU's Information Security Guidelines . As a result, we have disabled this functionality and it may be addressed as a future improvement. Troubleshooting Why are new team members disappearing after adding them to my team? If your team membership is being managed automatically with groups", ":\n\nUsers will be automatically added to a team if they are part of the security group, and Users that are not part of security group will be automatically removed . Team Owners will not be able to add or remove team members through Microsoft Teams in the \"Manage Team\" settings. You will have to add or remove team members through SFU Groups security group that is synced to your team. I couldn't receive calls when I use Teams on a browser. What happened? Although certain browsers (e.g., Internet Explorer 11 , Safari , and Firefox ) support MS Teams web app, there may be some noted exceptions for the calling and meetings features. Our recommendation is to use Teams on the desktop app , supported browsers , or mobile app to get the best user experience. For more information about the supported browsers for Teams on the web and the potential limitations, see Web clients for Microsoft Teams . I can't add a calendar on MS Teams. It's displaying a \"Your exchange calendar isn't set up. Talk to your admin to set up your calendar\" message. The ability to integrate Outlook calendars or create channel calendar on MS Teams is currently unavailable. The calendar feature on MS Teams relies on Microsoft Exchange Online at SFU. For accounts not using Exchange Online, we recommend using the calendar available under SFU Mail . Privacy & Security How secure is MS Teams? MS Teams at SFU is protected by enterprise-level security from Microsoft. To learn more about Microsoft\u2019s trust and security related information, visit the Microsoft Trust Center . Where is the data stored? Is MS Teams FIPPA-compliant? All data uploaded to MS Teams at SFU are stored within Canada and are protected under the BC Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy", ":\n\nTo learn more about Microsoft\u2019s trust and security related information, visit the Microsoft Trust Center . Where is the data stored? Is MS Teams FIPPA-compliant? All data uploaded to MS Teams at SFU are stored within Canada and are protected under the BC Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA) . All members of the SFU community are reminded to only share personally identifiable information (PII) as permitted under FIPPA. Can I share files that may contain personally identifiable information (PII) on Teams? All members of the SFU community are reminded to only share personally identifiable information (PII) as permitted under", "FIPPA\n\n. Files that may be personally identifiable should be shared within a private team and/or a private channel that only permits a specific set of individuals to have access. We do not recommend sharing PII in a public team (i.e., open to all individuals from SFU to join) and/or a channel with a broad audience where the individuals may not have a purpose of accessing that information . For more information on how to identify, understand, manage, and use university data appropriately, see the SFU Data Security Standard page. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting Power User refers to staff and faculty as they interact more often with these services. Regular Use r refers to students. Faculty & Staff Students Host meetings \u2713 \u2713 Require a password for meetings \u2713 \u2713 Chat, Polling, Screen sharing, Annotation, Whiteboard, Breakout Room \u2713 \u2713 File Transfer \u2713 \u2713 Waiting room \u2713 \u2713 Local Recording \u2713 \u2713 Cloud recording \u2713 x Participants join before host \u2713 x Option for Waiting Room \u2713 x Remote control \u2713 x Language interpretation \u2713 x", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting", "GET STARTED\n\nSign into sfu.zoom.us with your SFU Computing ID and password, and you'll be signed up to use Zoom right away. You can also download and install Zoom to your desktop or mobile phones for more features. Sign in via web browser Download Zoom for desktop or mobile Note!", "SFU ZOOM VS ZOOM\n\nDo", "NOT\n\nsign in Zoom using www.zoom.us . Instead, you must use the SFU zoom at sfu.zoom.us . The image below shows the correct SFU zoom sign in page. If you already created an account with the wrong Zoom, check out the instructions below.", "Step 1:\n\nWith the desktop client open select Sign In.", "Step 2:\n\nSelect Sign in with SSO . If you\u2019re interested in staying logged in (so you don\u2019t have to go through all these steps again) then also ensure Keep me signed in is checked.", "Step 3:\n\nEnsure the company domain has sfu typed before .zoom.us and select Continue. Note, if you see a page asking for your email address then select I know the company domain listed below.", "Step 4:\n\nThe Zoom client will bring you to SFU\u2019s Central Authentication Service (CAS), so sign in using your SFU Computing ID and password. Note that if you are already signed in to CAS via another SFU service (such as mail.sfu.ca or elsewhere) then this page will automatically authenticate you and skip this step.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting", "OPTION 1\n\nCreate a new meeting using a randomly generated meeting ID. This is a good option if you\u2019re looking for a private disposable meeting room (such as those for inter- views where you\u2019ll need to keep each session separate). View instructions on how to create a random ID below", "OPTION 2\n\nUse a static meeting ID with the Personal Meeting ID attached to your Zoom account. This is a good choice if you need a recurring meeting ID (such as those for weekly staff meetings where you want to use a single ID to keep things simple). View instructions on how to create a static ID below", "HOW TO CREATE A MEETING WITH A RANDOM ID\n\nWith the desktop client open select the New Meeting button. A new meeting will begin with a randomly generated meeting ID.", "For more information see the help article:\n\nHow do I Host a Meeting?", "HOW TO CREATE A MEETING WITH A STATIC ID\n\nTo start a meeting using your Personal Meeting ID (PMI) select the dropdown arrow for New Meeting and ensure \u201cUse my Personal Meeting ID (PMI) is selected. Once selected click the New Meeting button.", "For more information see the help article:\n\nPersonal Meeting ID (PMI)", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting You can increase the security of your meetings by only allowing authenticated users (those with a Zoom account) to join your meetings. This setting is available on a per meeting basis and can be enabled when scheduling a meeting via the web or desktop app. If a user isn\u2019t signed in to SFU Zoom they will get the follwing message: When scheduling a meeting via a web browser Select Only authenticated users can join under Meeting Options . When scheduling a meeting via the Zoom desktop client Select Only authenticated users can join under Advanced Options . We recommend using \" SFU Users Only \" option for classes and private meetings.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting To join a Zoom meeting you\u2019ll need to enter a meeting ID from someone who\u2019s created a meeting for you to join. Typically the meeting organizer with either email these details to you, or tell you the meeting ID via other means. Zoom meeting IDs are 9-digit numbers", "EXAMPLE NUMBER : 123-456-789\n\nIf you prefer joining a zoom meeting anonymously please refer to our Zoom Privacy and Security FAQs on how to do so.", "Step 1:\n\nClick the Join button to begin.", "Step 2:\n\nEnter the meeting ID of the session you were invited to participate in.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting There are several ways to invite others to a meeting. For simplicity we\u2019ll cover how to send out meeting invitations for a meeting already in progress. For scheduling and sending out meeting invitations in advance please see the help article: How do I invite others to join a meeting? Send email invitations for a meeting already in progress During your meeting session click the Invite button located at the bottom of your meeting window This will open the invitation window. From here select the Email tab to send an invitation to a colleague", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting During a meeting you\u2019ll have a multitude of options available that will help facilitate your meeting. From whiteboards to reactions Zoom can be a very diverse tool to collaborate with colleagues. Listed below is an overview of the basics to get you started for your first session. 1 Toggles the microphone for your device. Additional options can be revealed by selecting the arrow next to the icon. Note that a common best practice is to mute your microphone until your ready to speak. You never know when an unexpected noise might creep in and distrupt the meeting for others. 2 Toggles the video for your device. Additional options can be revealed by selecting the arrow next to the icon. 3 Screen sharing within Zoom is quite robust. Some common features are to: Share your entire screen. Share a blank whiteboard for collaboration. Share the screen of a specific application you have open.", "For more information see the help article:\n\nAudio, Video, Sharing 4 Toggles the chat window for the meeting.", "For more information about chat see the help article:\n\nIn-Meeting Chat 5 Reactions are a social feature that help facilitate participation during meetings without disrupting the current presentation. Participants can select from a list of emotes which will appear for all on the meeting window for 5 seconds.", "For more information see the help article:\n\nMeeting Reactions 6 Removes you from the meeting. Note that as a host or moderator you\u2019ll also have the option of ending the meeting for everyone in the session", "For more information see the help article:\n\nPass Host Controls and Leave Meeting", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting If you\u2019re the host of a meeting you\u2019ll have an expanded set of controls during a meeting to help keep things running smoothly.", "These controls include:\n\nLocking the meeting, which will prevent any additional participants from joining. Toggling the waiting room for the meeting. For more information about waiting rooms see the help article: Waiting room", "Additional participant controls such as:\n\nThe ability for participant to sharing their screen. The ability for participants to use the chat window. The ability for participants to renaming themselves after joining the meeting.", "For more information see the help article:\n\nIn meeting security options", "ICON REVEALS THE PARTICIPANT WINDOW.\n\nAs the host you will have an expanded set of capabilities, such as: Removing participants Muting / unmuting participants Delegating co-hosts to help out during the meeting.", "For more information see the help article:\n\nManaging participants in a meeting", "ICON COMES WITH AN ADVANCED SET OF CONTROLS THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO THE HOST\n\nTo access these controls click the icon next to the Share Screen button.", "These settings include:\n\nToggling screen sharing for all participants. Controlling how many participants can share their screen at a time. Delegating who can share their screen while someone else is sharing.", "ICON STARTS A LOCAL RECORDING OF THE MEETING THAT WILL BE SAVED TO YOUR DEVICE.\n\nThe local recording functionality within Zoom is extensive. So we encourage you to explore Zoom\u2019s Local Recording help page. Specific to SFU\u2019s implementation, participants will receive an audio notification and be prompted with the following message when a recording has begun: Also note that the host (or co-host) of a meeting is responsible for informing participants about the privacy and security considerations related to recording. For help with this see our page outlining Privacy and Security considerations (and FAQs) regarding recording at https://www.sfu.ca/itservices/technical/videoconferencing/zoom/privacy.html Instructors are also responsible for the management of recorded lecture material. Instructor guidelines on recorded lectures, can be found at https://www.sfu.ca/itservices/technical/videoconferencing/zoom/privacy/recording-zoom-lectures--privacy-and-copyright-guidelines-for-in.html For additional help on uploading recorded lectures to our Learning Management Systems see the following resources: Uploading a file to Canvas Uploading a recording to Mediasite", "ICON STARTS A SERIES OF BREAKOUT SESSIONS FOR THE MEETING.\n\nThis will split your participants in to their own private instances of the meeting for smaller discussions.", "For more information see the help article:\n\nManaging breakout rooms", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting To use the SFU-theme virtual background during your meeting, you can download the background from the SFU communicators toolkit , and follow the steps below. Zoom Virtual Background in the Zoom desktop client and mobile app requirements: Zoom desktop client, 4.6.0 or higher mac OS version 10.13 or higher Supported processor: i5 - 2 cores or higher (2Ghz or higher), MacBook Air with Apple M1 chip (2020 version or later).", "Step 1:\n\nOnce you've launched a Zoom meeting. Click on the '^' icon next to Start/Stop Video on the bottom left of your Zoom window and select Choose Virtual Background", "Step 2:\n\nClick on the + on the right-hand side below the current image in your settings. After this you can click Add image .", "Step 3:\n\nFind your saved image and select it", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting Zoom has recently upgraded the security standards for all Zoom meetings going forward. If you are connecting to a Zoom meeting via the desktop client then you will need to upgrade to version 5.0 or higher. For more information about the updated security standards implemented by Zoom see their Zoom 5.0 is here! announcement page.", "HOW TO CHECK WHAT VERSION OF ZOOM I CURRENTLY HAVE?\n\nTo check which version you have installed open the Zoom desktop app and select your profile picture (top right corner of the app). Then navigate to Help > Check for updates . If the version is 5.0 or higher then no updates are required on your part. If the version is lower then see the additional help points below. For more information about checking your version number please see the Viewing the Zoom version number help article.", "HOW TO UPDATE ZOOM?\n\non a personal Windows or Mac device If you are using a personal Windows or Mac device (i.e. a laptop or desktop machine that isn't managed by SFU) then you can download the most recent Zoom desktop client at https://zoom.us/download . on a SFU Managed Windows or Mac device Managed Windows If you are using a Windows device that is managed by the university then this update should already be installed. If it isn't then there are 3 options to force update your machine. 1. If you are on campus then run the SFU Maintenance Mode program. This will be located in the start menu of your device. This program will also run if you restart your device while connected to the campus wifi network. 2. If you are not on campus , but are an administrator for your device, you can manually update the Zoom app at https://zoom.us/download . 3. If you are not on campus, and not an administrator for your device , then please contact the IT Service Desk at 778.782.8888 or email it-servicedesk@sfu.ca for remote assistance in performing the update. Managed Mac Restart your device, and Zoom will automatically be updated in your Managed Mac. Or open the SFU Managed Software Centre app installed on your device and select \u201cUpdates\u201d. The most recent version of the Zoom client will install.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting", "SPEECH-TO-TEXT TRANSCRIPTION\n\nLive transcription is a beta feature that enables auto speech-to-text transcription. When enabled by hosts, participants can see captions during a meeting or webinar, and/or download the transcription afterwards. Follow the instructions below for host or participant.", "ENABLE LIVE TRANSCRIPTION\n\nEnable", "Turn on live transcription in each meeting/webinar you prefer:\n\nClick the Live Transcript button at the bottom of your Zoom Select Enable Auto-Transcription Disable Select Disable Auto-Transcription, to disable live transcription.", "SAVE CAPTIONS\n\nActivate the Save Captions features in your Zoom Settings", ":\n\nOpen your Zoom client . Go to Settings > In Meeting (Advanced), and click the toggle to activate closed captioning and/or save captions as you wish.", "Alternatives of Save Captions:\n\nTo prevent participants from transcription saving, de-select Save Captions in your personal setting. By using the Cloud Recording feature, you can still provide automatic audio transcription/closed caption after meetings.", "FOR PARTICIPANTS\n\nDisplay live transcription Find Live Transcript in the control bar at the bottom of your Zoom.", "Option 1:\n\nShow Subtitle Captions will appear at the bottom of the Zoom window. Option 2: View/Close Full Transcript Audio will be transcribed in the right-hand corner of the Zoom window. Captions are time stamped and tagged with who was speaking. Change captioning sizes Click Subtitle Settings , and use the slider at the top of the Accessibility tab to adjust the font size of the subtitles.", "CHANGE CAPTIONING SIZES\n\nClick Subtitle Settings , and use the slider at the top of the Accessibility tab to adjust the font size of the subtitles.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting", "This page includes information on:\n\nRecording your Zoom session Start a local/cloud recording Share Cloud recording Download Cloud recording Trim Zoom recording Delete cloud recording", "RECORDING YOUR ZOOM SESSION\n\nZoom Meetings and Webinars can be recorded locally onto your computer or to the cloud.", "Before recording the meeting, participants must be informed the following:\n\nThat the meeting will be recorded The chats and shared files may be retained.", "HOW TO START A LOCAL / CLOUD RECORDING\n\nStep 1: Click the Record button in the meeting toolbar. Step 2: Select one of the options (record on this computer/record to the cloud) to start recording. Hosts will see the following recording indicator in the top left corner during the recording. The Record button will switch to a Pause/Stop Recording button. If you click Pause it will switch to a Resume button. Once the meeting has ended, the recording will be processed before viewing.", "MP4\n\n: Audio/Video format for video recording uses.", "M4A\n\n: Audio format for audio-only file uses.", "M3U\n\n: Playlist file to play all individual MP4 files (Windows only) Chat : Standard text or .txt file.", "SHARE CLOUD RECORDINGS WITH PARTICIPANTS\n\nAfter recording a Zoom session to the cloud, the host can share a recording with participants. Sharing is enabled automatically once a cloud recording is finished processing. Note: Instructors can share their recordings from Zoom directly, but we recommend Sharing Recordings with Zoom for Canvas . Sharing a Recording Manually Step 1: Go to the Zoom Web Portal and sign in with your SFU account. Step 2: On the menu click on recordings and select cloud recordings. Step 3: Select the Meeting in the topic column Step 4: Click on share. Step 5: Click copy sharing information to clipboard to copy the recording information. You can paste the information in a web Link or in Canvas. Note: Cloud recordings cannot be embedded on websites, to protect the security of the recording.", "SHARING OPTIONS\n\nRecording Security Setting Description Notes Share this recording Enable this to access all sharing settings and links. Disabling this will make the recording private \"Only authenticated users may view: Signed-in Users in my account\" means the recording will be accessible to SFU users only Add expiry date to the link Specify when the link will expire for viewers. You can add a custom date Viewers can download This remains disabled by default. Viewers cannot download any file Viewers can see transcript Subtitles will be displayed as the recording plays. Subtitles and a full transcript of the meeting/webinar can be provided On-demand (Registration Required) Require viewers to provide a name and email prior to viewing the recording. The host will have a list of all the registrants and viewers with access to the recording Passcode protection Viewers need to enter a password in order to access the recording. Passcodes may include letters, numbers, and symbols.", "DOWNLOADING CLOUD RECORDINGS\n\nAfter recording your Zoom session to the cloud, you can manage and download your recordings. Step 1: After selecting a meeting in the Topic column, details about your recording will appear. Step 2: By clicking Shared screen with speaker view , your recording will download as a .mp4 file. File types (Cloud Recording) Shared screen with active speaker view, gallery view, and shared screen", ":\n\nMP4 file with audio and video. Audio only : M4A file with a recording of the audio. Audio transcript : VTT file with a transcript of the audio only Chat : Standard text or .txt file with the transcript of in-meeting chat", "TRIMMING RECORDINGS IN ZOOM\n\nOnce you have your cloud recording, you can trim both the beginning and the end of your Zoom recording. Trimming your recording only edits the playback for the viewer, but you will not lose any of your original content. Note: Only cloud recordings can be trimmed.", "To trim your cloud recording:\n\nStep 1: Go to the recording you wish to trim and click on the Play icon on the recording thumbnail to open the player page. Step 2: Click the Scissor icon at bottom right of the player Step 3: Drag the playhead arrows to set the start and end times and then click Save .", "DELETING CLOUD RECORDINGS \u2013 RETENTION SCHEDULE\n\nZoom Cloud recording is a temporary storage service and is not for long term storage or delivery of recordings. A 365-day retention period will be applied to Zoom Cloud recordings, meaning after the 365 days the recording will be deleted. The host will receive notification that the recording will be deleted 7 days prior to deletion . The host can manually delete any recording prior to automatic deletion by clicking the Delete button. Note: Academic class recordings \u2013 if instructors want to maintain the recording longer, please download the recording and upload to myMediasite", "WHO CAN RECORD THE MEETING?\n\nBy default, all SFU users as the host can record Zoom meetings locally onto a computer; however only faculty and staff can access to the record to the cloud option.", "WHAT CAN GET RECORDED TO THE CLOUD?\n\nBy default, Zoom meetings can be recorded as Active speaker with shared screen mode. If the host wants to choose different layouts or formats, please go to your personal settings to change Cloud recording", "CAN I MAKE MULTIPLE RECORDINGS IN THE SAME MEETING?\n\nYes, the host can stop and restart recordings, which will create separate files for each recording. The host can also pause and resume recording, which will create one file.", "A/V and Media Zoom Teaching/Learning with Zoom in Canvas Passcode protection will be enforced for all shared cloud recordings. The feature will limit who can view your cloud recording. To modify a random passcode: 1. Access your recordings on the portal. 2. Click Share next to the recording you want to check a passcode. 3. Click Passcode Protection to see a random passcode. 4. Enter the password you want to use and click Save .", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting Changing the display name allows users to use a preferred name as the display name in Zoom. The next time users log into https://sfu.zoom.us/ , the new display name will automatically be updated. To change your display name follow the instructions below. Log in to your SFU account https://sfu.zoom.us/ . Access your profile on the portal. Click Edit next to your name. Enter a preferred name you want to use and click Save Changes .", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting Log in to your SFU account https://sfu.zoom.us/ . Access your profile on the portal. Click customize next to personal link . Customize your link and save Changes .", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting Step 1: Select Previous Meetings and then choose Report Review the report and export it as CSV File. Note: It can show the same student joining the meeting twice, this happens when a student leaves and rejoins the meeting. Can I get a list of each attendee and their total duration? Go to https://sfu.zoom.us/account/report Step 1: Go to Reports choose Usage and then click the Participants link for the session. Step2: Click Show unique users to see a collapsed list of each unique attendee and their total duration.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Meeting This feature allows the user to monitor network and Zoom performance. If your Zoom connection is unstable, you will see a message pop up that says \"Your Internet Connection is Unstable.\" The symptoms of an unstable connection when using Zoom can include: Zoom jitter Zoom packet loss Poor quality Zoom audio and video Zoom meeting disconnection How to monitor Open your Zoom Client App, and go to the \"Settings\" menu. Click the \"Statistics\" button to check the network health status.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Webinar Select at sfu.zoom.us", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Webinar", "Step 1:\n\nSelect Webinars then select Schedule a Webinar .", "Step 2:\n\nSet the name, start time, and duration of the webinar. The start time and duration are only an approximation. The webinar will start and end according to host controls.", "STEP 3 - PASSWORD & REGISTRATION\n\nThis step helps secure your webinar. A Webinar Password is required to join any SFU Zoom webinar. The password will be embedded in the link sent to attendees. When Registration is required, registrants must submit their name and email address to gain access to the webinar Enabling the Only authenticated users can join feature means registrants must sign in with a Zoom account before registering. Both SFU and non-SFU Zoom accounts are eligible.", "STEP 4 - ADD CO HOST\n\nAn alternative host can also broadcast the webinar. To add an alternative host simply add their email under alternative host. A host or alternative host that joins the webinar after will be designated as a co-host. Once the settings are confirmed, select Schedule . Video refers to the host or panelist\u2019s camera being enabled upon joining the webinar. The host or panelist can enable or disable their camera after joining.", "Recommendation:\n\nTurn on the Enable Practice Session feature to start the webinar in practice mode to perform a sound check.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Webinar 1. Invite panelist To invite a panelist, select Edit in the Invite Panelists section. Panelists and attendees will have a separate link to join the webinar.", "Recommendation:\n\nInvite any teaching assistant or technical staff as a panelist. Once they are in the webinar, promote them as co-hosts to help run the meeting 2. Invite attendees To invite attendees, select Copy Invitation . A preview of the invitation will appear and can be copied for distribution. Next, copy and paste the following text into your invitation to get participant consent as all webinar participants are required to provide consent before joining the session: \u201cYour participation in a Zoom meeting will result in the disclosure of personal information to Zoom Video Communications. To consent to this disclosure please fill out the form at https://www.surveymonkey.ca/r/zoomprivacy \" For more informaton on partcipant consent please refer to our zoom privacy guidelines page", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Webinar Step 1 Select Start this Webinar to begin broadcasting the webinar. Step 2 If Practice Session was enabled, select Broadcast in the Zoom client to begin broadcasting live.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Webinar 1. Allow attendees to talk Under participants, click on the allow to talk button next to the participants name. 2. Promote attendee to panelist Next to the participants name click on more and the option to promote to panelist will come up. 3. Q&A controls Using Q&A controls, the host and panelists can answer questions live (visible to everyone), privately (using type answer), or dismiss them. Dismissed questions can be retrieved via the Dismissed tab. 4. Direct all questions to Q&A", "Recommendation:\n\nDisable chat between panelists and other attendees so that all questions are directed to the Q&A.", "A/V and Media Zoom Zoom Webinar Generating an Attendee Report helps you see who attended the webinar. Select Reports then select Webinar . Select Attendee Report to generate the corresponding CSV file.", "A/V and Media Zoom Teaching/Learning with Zoom in Canvas", "IF I ENABLE ZOOM MEETINGS IN CANVAS WILL STUDENTS BE ABLE TO SEE ALL MY OTHER ZOOM MEETINGS?\n\nNo, Students will only see meetings that were created in Canvas. Any meetings created outside Canvas, such as those created via the Zoom Desktop Client or the Zoom web portal , will remain private and inaccessible to students.", "DO I NEED AN SFU ZOOM ACCOUNT TO ACCESS ZOOM MEETINGS IN CANVAS?\n\nTo meet SFU's privacy and security guidelines for Zoom you will need a valid SFU Zoom account to participate in Canvas-Zoom meetings.", "CAN STUDENTS CREATE THEIR OWN MEETINGS (SUCH AS STUDY GROUPS...ETC) IN CANVAS?\n\nNo, the student role within Canvas cannot create Zoom meetings for the course. However, students are welcome to use thier own SFU Zoom account to create meetings outside of Canvas. Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "A/V and Media Zoom Teaching/Learning with Zoom in Canvas", "For students trying to watch a recorded Zoom meeting/lecture:\n\nYou do not need to ask your instructor for the password, instead you can log into your canvas and access the password. Step 1: Log into Canvas Step 2: Access your course profile and click on Zoom Step 3 : Go to course recordings Once you have reached the course recording, click on passcode next to the eye icon and the password will be revealed.", "A/V and Media Zoom Teaching/Learning with Zoom in Canvas Live Proctoring with SFU Zoom SFU Zoom is an approved option for live remote proctoring of exams. Although SFU Zoom is not a remote proctoring software it can: \u2022 mimic physical observation that occurs during in-person exams \u2022 confirm which student is taking the exam \u2022 be a reminder of academic integrity guidelines at SFU. Note that when SFU Zoom or any other method is used for live proctoring the session must not be recorded. The strongest recommendation for ensuring academic integrity is exams and exam questions that are tailored to require unique student reflection and work. There are also a number of features in Canvas that can be leveraged to discourage cheating or make it more difficult to cheat on exams. To learn more, please visit https://www.sfu.ca/cee/services/online-exam-options.html or reach out to the Centre for Educational Excellence for advice. The following guidelines have been developed by CEE and ITS to ensure a reasonably seamless experience using SFU Zoom for live remote proctoring. If you need technical support with SFU Zoom, call the IT Service Desk at 778 782 8888 or send an email to it-servicedesk@sfu.ca. Check www.sfu.ca/itservices for current hours of support. Scheduling Your Proctoring Session Go to https://sfu.zoom.us/ and select option sign in SFU Zoom Locate the meetings option in the left navigation menu bar.", "Enter the meeting settings:\n\nSelect registration required Meeting password: assign a unique password or SFU Zoom will create a random numeric passcode Video: host on, participant on Disable enable join before host Enable Mute Participants upon entry Enable Enable waiting room Assign alternative hosts. This will allow others to log-in and get your meeting started on your behalf. Please note, that the most effective way to add them is by entering their computingID@sfu.ca rather than their e-mail alias. If you are limiting each proctoring session to a certain number of participants, have others set up additional meetings following the same process. Note that the current Online Exam Procedures (the document equivalent to in-person exam procedures) indicates that for final exams there should be one invigilator for up to 25 students and at least one additional invigilator per each additional 50 students. Additional proctors may also be made co-hosts of the session. Proctoring for Students Registered with Centre for Accessible Learning If your class includes students registered with the Centre for Accessible Learning (CAL), please refer to the instructions they have provided on Zoom proctoring. Share the Registration Link Once the session is scheduled, the registration link and invitation are provided. Click Copy the Invitation and paste it into your preferred communication channel with students. We recommend that you do this either through e-mail or through the Canvas learning management system. Students will register for the exam session and receive a unique link to access the session. They will need to click that link from a browser (or paste it into a browser) before selecting the option \u2018Open zoom.us\u2019 to launch the meeting. Technology Requirements Determine the necessary technology requirements for your session. It is possible to proctor with both one device or with two devices to get a secondary camera view of the student", "Enter the meeting settings:\n\na browser (or paste it into a browser) before selecting the option \u2018Open zoom.us\u2019 to launch the meeting. Technology Requirements Determine the necessary technology requirements for your session. It is possible to proctor with both one device or with two devices to get a secondary camera view of the student workspace. Please be aware of potential student limitations in access to a secondary device with a camera to participate in two device proctoring. A reliable internet connection will be necessary for all students. It is advisable to make a contingency plan for what you will do if there are internet connectivity issues for a student.", "One Device Option:\n\nStudents will need a laptop or desktop with a webcam to access SFU Zoom and the preferred format for exam taking (e.g. Canvas). Joining with a smartphone in addition to your computer may be required if you do not have a webcam.", "Two Device Option:\n\nA first laptop or desktop with a webcam available and a second laptop, a smartphone, or a tablet to access SFU Zoom for remote proctoring. If you are opting for the two device option, please be clear as to positioning requirements for the second device. Preparation for Proctoring Session Conduct a practice session at least 24 hours prior to the exam period so that you can test out your proctoring solution and ensure everything is working properly. We recommend that you do this as early as possible. Your practice session will be self-serve and should replicate the conditions of the actual exam. CEE and ITS staff will not be able to coordinate this session for you. This session is a great time to remind students of exam expectations so that they are prepared when they begin the exam or could be used as a study session. Proctors should join prior to all students. Assign any co-hosts during the session. Students should be informed to join the session at least 30 minutes early to allow for troubleshooting and resolution of technical issues. We recommend that you have a contingency plan for how you will handle technical issues that may occur during the session. Starting the Session The proctor will log-in and begin the session In the top right hand corner, you can change the view to gallery view so that you will see a grid of all the students joining the call. Depending on the number of students, you may need to rotate through the views throughout the session to see all students.", "Once the session is started, proctor will:\n\nGo to the chat and change it so participants can chat with the host only. Admit students one-by-one from the waiting room to confirm their names and identities Mute participants if necessary 4. Please note that as you will be monitoring students\u2019 videos, names, and potentially audio, you must not record due to privacy concerns with the collection of such data. 5. Communicate exam expectations. Ideally these will be shared both in the course communications, and in the practice session but it is valuable to re-iterate these expectations prior to beginning the exam. Expectations will include but are not limited to: a. How to ask questions to the proctor b. What to do when the exam is completed c. What is allowed or not allowed during the exam (e.g. using scratch paper, calculators, notes, etc.) During the Exam Proctors can click on individual students\u2019 video boxes to expand the view of that student. If a problem arises, students will let the proctor know through the aforementioned method of asking questions, whether that be through the chat, through the hand raising feature, or simply by unmuting themselves and asking a question. The proctor can then decide whether the student needs to be moved into a breakout room. If you anticipate that many students will need to use this, you can have TAs in the breakout room(s) ready to assist. Select breakout rooms in the SFU Zoom task bar and select the manual creation of breakout rooms. It is advisable that depending on capacity, you should only have one student in a breakout room at a time. Ending the Exam Students can Chat with the proctor to inform them they are complete. Proctor can verify exam submission and dismiss student. At the end of the exam window, proctor will remind students that", "Once the session is started, proctor will:\n\non capacity, you should only have one student in a breakout room at a time. Ending the Exam Students can Chat with the proctor to inform them they are complete. Proctor can verify exam submission and dismiss student. At the end of the exam window, proctor will remind students that the exam window is closing, and they can submit their exam through Canvas or other method outlined by proctor or Canvas will automatically submit the exam for them when the exam time has closed. Once the exam window has closed students can be dismissed at the same time. If you require additional guidance surrounding SFU Zoom for live remote proctoring, please contact ceehelp@sfu.ca or visit www.sfu.ca/cee and use the \u2018How can we help you\u2019 button in the bottom right hand corner to get assistance from an member of the Centre for Educational Excellence. Please note that we only work business hours (8:30 AM \u2013 4:00 PM) and allow 24 hours for a reply from our support portal. If you need technical support with SFU Zoom, call the IT Service Desk at 778 782 8888 or send an email to it-servicedesk@sfu.ca. Check www.sfu.ca/itservices for current hours of support.", "A/V and Media Zoom Teaching/Learning with Zoom in Canvas SFU's Zoom-Canvas integration is a quick way for instructors and teaching assistants to schedule online meetings from within Canvas to help facilitate online learning. To get started with Zoom in Canvas you will need an SFU Zoom account , and be listed as one of the following roles", "within your Canvas course:\n\nTeacher", "TA\n\nDesigner", "Faculty, Instructor & Teaching Assistants can:\n\nSchedule and manage meetings dedicated to your Canvas course View and track attendance from previous meetings", "Students can:\n\nTrack upcoming course meetings Join meetings View previous meeting dates", "ADD ZOOM TO A CANVAS COURSE\n\nTo add Zoom to your Canvas course you'll first need to sign-in to Canvas, and then navigate to your course. Your next step will be to list Zoom as a navigation item for your course, so follow the steps listed below: Select Settings in course navigation list. Select the Navigation tab at the top of the screen. Click on the three dots net to the Zoom option below and select +Enable . Click Save", "SCHEDULE COURSE MEETINGS\n\nStep 1: To schedule a Zoom meeting, open the course in which you have enabled Zoom. Step 2: Select Zoom on your course navigation menu and click the blue Schedule a New Meeting button in the upper right of the page. Step 3: Select the settings you would like for Zoom meeting.", "Here are some of our recommendations for the settings:\n\nSet security to: \u201crequire authentication to join\u201d, (this way you have a list of all those attending the meeting.) Set meeting options to: \u201crecord the meeting automatically\u201d and \u201cin the cloud\u201d (this will help share the recording with students after class) For advanced options: set up alternative hosts, (this allows instructors to share most of the controls with TAs). Step 4: Once you are done selecting your preferred settings, click the Save button, and the Zoom meeting will be available to students The Zoom navigation tab will now be accessible on your course site. From here you can schedule and manage Zoom meetings that are specific to your course", "VIEW ATTENDANCE REPORTS FOR ZOOM MEETINGS\n\nStep 1: Select Previous Meetings and then choose Report Review the report and export it as CSV File. Note: It can show the same student joining the meeting twice, this happens when a student leaves and rejoins the meeting. Can I get a list of each attendee and their total duration? Go to https://sfu.zoom.us/account/report Step 1: Go to Reports choose Usage and then click the Participants link for the session. Step2: Click Show unique users to see a collapsed list of each unique attendee and their total duration.", "SHARE CLOUD RECORDINGS WITH STUDENTS\n\nNote: Zoom sessions can be set to automatically recorded when you create a schedule or you can record the meeting manually during/before the session. After recording a class session to the cloud, you can quickly share your recording with students. Step 1: Click on cloud recordings . Step 2: Click the publish toggle button to publish the recording to your students. Note the blue published status. Related Services / Offerings (1) Canvas Canvas is SFU's institutionally supported learning management system.", "Infrastructure Network and Connectivity Management Wireless Connectivity (Wi-Fi)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article explains how to connect to the SFUNET network on your mobile device. SFUNET is an older, insecure wireless network meant for basic connectivity. Currently, there are no traffic restrictions and all wireless devices should be supported. However, it is recommended that SFU users use the", "SFUNET-SECURE\n\nnetwork unless device compatibility prevents it.", "To use SFUNET:\n\nConnect to SFUNET Open a web browser and navigate to any HTTP page Enter your SFU computing ID and password into the web portal", "Note:\n\nAll use of wireless networking is governed by policy GP-24 \"Fair Use of Information and Communication Technology . Related Services / Offerings (1) Wireless Connectivity (Wi-Fi) Provide wireless (Wi-Fi) connection to access campus internet services.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Central Authentication Service (CAS)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines best practices for developers.", "DETAILS\n\nBest practices for single sign-on (SSO) and single log-out (SLO) CAS SSO is recommended for web applications that require authentication services, for both on premise and cloud applications. SLO is recommended once a user requests a logout from a CAS protected web application. This will simultaneously log the user out of the application and invalidate the CAS token.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Computing Account", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the life cycle of a computing ID for students, faculty, staff, and alumni. Currently at SFU", "Students:\n\nLog in to https://go.sfu.ca Select Student Centre In the section with the heading \u201cPersonal Information\u201d, select \u201cemail\u201d from the \u201cdrop down at the bottom of the section In the \u201cEmail Type\u201d column, choose \u201cOther\u201d, enter your external email address and click Save", "Staff/Faculty:\n\nLog in to https://myinfo.erp.sfu.ca In the \u201cEmployee Self Service\u201d page, select \u201cPersonal Details\u201d, then \u201cContact Details\u201d on the following page If you have an external email address set, it will be listed as \u201cOther\u201d. If the address is not current and correct, click the \u201c>\u201d to the right of your listed address On the dialogue box that appears, ensure that \u201cEmail type\u201d is set to \u201cOther\u201d and enter your preferred external email address. Click \u201cSave\u201d when done. If you do not have an \u201cOther\u201d address listed, click the \u201c+\u201d icon in the Email section of the Contact Details page to add a new address", "Notes:\n\nYour external email address will be updated overnight and will be available to be used to assist you in resetting your password easily as well as an alternative method of contacting you should your SFU Computing Account become compromised or other reasons where communicating with you is not possible using your SFU Computing Account. . What happens to my Computing ID when I have another role at SFU? One person, one Computing ID. Your Computing ID stays the same when you switch to another role or have additional roles at SFU. You may be a student who works part-time at SFU as a staff, or a staff who studies part-time as a student. You will only have one personal Computing ID regardless of how many roles you have at SFU. New to SFU When will I receive my Computing ID? Students Check your non-SFU email address for an email with the subject line of \"Your SFU Computing ID is available\". You will receive this email after accepting SFU's offer of admission by paying the deposit. Depending on when your first semester is, you will receive the email at the following scheduled time: Starting in September: Email sent in mid-June Starting in January: Email sent in mid-October Starting in May: Email sent in mid-February If you confirm your offer of admission after the scheduled date, you will be sent an email within 5 days of paying your deposit. Staff and Faculty Check your non-SFU email address for an email with the subject line of \"Your SFU Computing ID is available\". You will receive this email after your initial hiring information has been processed by your department and Human Resources. If you did not receive your employee ID or SFU ID number needed to activate your SFU computing ID, check with your", "Notes:\n\nsubject line of \"Your SFU Computing ID is available\". You will receive this email after your initial hiring information has been processed by your department and Human Resources. If you did not receive your employee ID or SFU ID number needed to activate your SFU computing ID, check with your hiring manager or contact Human Resources. Do I need to do anything else after activating my computing id? For some SFU services, including , OneDrive and other Microsoft services, you may need to wait an additional hour after activation to gain access. Leaving SFU Will I be able to access SFU systems after leaving SFU? Students You will maintain full access to most SFU online systems, such as SFU Mail and goSFU, for one year after the end of the last term in which you were enrolled in at least one credit course. We recommend downloading a copy of your files during this time. One year after leaving SFU, you will receive an email notification from IT Services at your SFU email address, indicating your account will be switched to an SFU Limited Access ID in 12 weeks. After the 12-week conversion period, your Computing ID will have limited access to SFU online systems. Time Accessibility Actions you can take Within one year of graduation Full access Set up email forwarding in SFU Mail Transfer existing SFU messages to another email address 12-week conversion time Full access. Notified of the conversion. Set up email forwarding in SFU Mail Transfer existing SFU messages to another email address After 1 year and 12 weeks Converted to limited access ID.", "Accessible:\n\nSFU Canvas goSFU Selected library resources Simplicity Wi-Fi and computer labs", "No longer accessible:\n\nSFU Vault SFU Zoom Personal web space", "M365\n\nStaff and Faculty You will maintain access to most SFU online systems for one year after leaving the university, including SFU Mail. Some systems, such as goSFU, require that you are an active staff or faculty member for access. For FINS access, there is a grace period of 140 days starting from the date of termination. Former employees are not eligibile for extended access to", "SFU VPN\n\nRelated Services / Offerings (1) Computing Account An SFU computing account is your digital ID used to access university systems, such as email, wifi and more.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Computing Account", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to keep your computing ID secure.", "DETAILS\n\n1. Never ever share your Computing ID or password Your SFU Computing ID will be disabled if it's discovered that your account has been compromised or suspicious activity has been detected. Your SFU Computing ID and password is assigned specifically to you. It should never be shared with anyone else. 2. Create a secure password Recommended methods for creating a password Combine the first letters and punctuation of a phrase. For example:", "The phrase:\n\nHail the Gophers, they're my heroes!", "The password:\n\nHtG,tmh!", "The original words:\n\nBig Ten", "The password:\n\nByg,Tyn! Things to avoid", "Generally, avoid information anyone else may know:\n\nAvoid any word or series of words in any dictionary of any language, including any prefix, suffix, etc. Avoid any personal information, such as social insurance number, names of relatives, birthday, names of pets, license plate number of your car, etc. Avoid any password that someone suggested to you or that you've seen written down. Avoid any sequence of adjacent keys on the keyboard, for example, \"Qwerty\". Things to include Some of these rules are enforced by the system when you create a password: Be as long as possible. Be easy to remember. Check out the recommended methods for creating a secure and easy-to-remember password. 3. Log out on public computers To prevent accidental or deliberate use of your account by others, never leave a computer unattended while you are logged in. Ensure that you log out on public computers after you are finished, including those in SFU computer labs. 4. Remember: SFU will never ask you to provide or confirm your Computing ID or password Never give your SFU Computing ID and password to anyone under any circumstances. If you receive an email asking you to confirm your Computing ID and password, simply delete the message. Do not reply or click on any links within the message, no matter how official the message appears to be. Learn how to protect yourself from phishing scams and messages . 5. Set up multi-factor authentication (MFA) Setting up MFA helps prevent unauthorized access to your computing ID. Learn more about MFA and how to set it up . Related resources Cybersecurity tips Related Services / Offerings (1) Computing Account An SFU computing account is your digital ID used to access university systems, such as email, wifi and more.", "Web Services Personal Webspace", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article explains how to get started with accessing your personal webspace.", "ACCESSING PERSONAL WEBSPACE OFF-CAMPUS\n\nTo promote information security, you'll need to connect to SFU's secure networks to access your personal webspace remotely. STUDENTS You can access your personal webspace on computers in SFU computer labs. Once you've enrolled in MFA, you can connect to computer labs remotely and access your webspace from off-campus.", "GRADUATE STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF\n\nYou can access personal webspace by using SFU VPN . This also requires using MFA.", "DETAILS\n\nTo upload/manage files in your personal web space you will first need a way to connect to our web server. This can be done using a file transfer application or a professional web publishing application. Your application will also need to be capable of making secure connections via SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol) or SCP (Secure File Copy) / SSH (Secure Shell) . For students, the necessary applications are pre-installed on our computer lab machines. If you do not have a professional web publishing application, we recommend using one of the free file transfer applications listed below: WinSCP or PuTTY for Windows Cyberduck and FileZilla for Mac OS . Once you've downloaded and installed the appropriate application, see how to connect and publish your web content . Related Services / Offerings (1) Personal Webspace A static web page publishing service for individuals", "Web Services Personal Webspace", "OVERVIEW\n\nLearn how to connect and publish web content on your personal webspace.", "DETAILS\n\nYou'll need to connect to our web server to upload content. Use the following settings to establish a connection: Setting Example Username kipling, your SFU Computing ID Password Your SFU Computing Account password Server Name rock.its.sfu.ca Directory (optional) Some applications may ask for a directory before making a connection. Most will work by providing pub_html , while others may require /home/ kipling /pub_html (where \u2018 kipling \u2019 is repalced with your SFU Computing ID) Once connected, upload your content to the pub_html folder. Your content will then be published online at https://www.sfu.ca/~ account (where account is your SFU Computing ID ).", "Note:\n\nTo display your content as a webpage, your starting file will need to be named index.htm or index.html . Use binary mode for gif, jpg and jpeg files. Related Services / Offerings (1) Personal Webspace A static web page publishing service for individuals", "Web Services Personal Webspace", "OVERVIEW\n\nLearn how to restrict access to your personal webspace using CAS.", "DETAILS\n\nCAS is a single sign-on solution (SSO) for the web. With CAS, you can access multiple SFU web applications without having to re-enter your Computing ID and password each time. CAS also protects your password information from application developers as it allows web applications to authenticate you without gaining access to your password. Learn more about CAS . You can use CAS to restrict access to your personal webspace or WebDAV space. Two options are available: CAS for web applications CAS Apache module Related Services / Offerings (1) Personal Webspace A static web page publishing service for individuals", "Web Services Personal Webspace", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines common problems you may encounter when using personal webspaces and how to troubleshoot them.", "IF YOU DON\u2019T HAVE A PUB_HTML DIRECTORY, DO THIS ONE TIME PROCEDURE:\n\nDownload and install WinSCP Use WinSCP to make a connection to rock.its.sfu.ca using your credentials. Navigate to your home directory. Create a new directory by selecting File(s) > New > Directory", ". A\n\nCreate Folder", "dialog box will appear. Within the dialog box:\n\nEnsure you name the folder pub_html Change Octal to 0755 If you get a message saying 'access is forbidden' when viewing your pages at https://www.sfu.ca/~ account", ", try:\n\nChanging file permissions with WinSCP", "(for Windows):\n\nLog into your web account using WinSCP. Move into the directory where your files reside by double-clicking the folder in the right pane. To change the permissions, right-click the file name (for example, index.html) or folder whose permissions you wish to set. A pop-up menu window will open. Select Properties . The Properties window for the selected file will open. To change the permissions, you can either select the Permissions checkboxes or edit the Octal text field . Both the checkboxes and Octal text field are synchronized, and a change in one area will be reflected in the other. If individual pages within your site are responding with 'access is forbidden': Use WinSCP to make a connection to rock.its.sfu.ca using your credentials to make sure your web files are permitted appropriately: Navigate to pub_html, the following file types should have Octal 644 permissions: *.htm,*.html, *.gif, *.jpg This will ensure that all files that end with the indicated suffixes are world readable.", "Any sub-directories within pub_html, should be permitted 755:\n\nAny files within that subdirectory should be permitted 644 as illustrated above. If you are using an scp/SFTP client that allows you to set default permissions: If you are using a graphical SFTP or scp client to upload your files that allows you to set permissions, set the software to transfer files with the permissions: owner: read/write, group: read, other: read; this is equivalent to setting the file to these permissions with the \"chmod 644\" command above. Very often the software will also have an option to \"set the executable bit for directories\" or \"Add X to directories\" as well (\"X\" means the 'executable bit', so both phrases mean the same thing). Choose that option, and specify \"user\", \"group\" and \"other\" if the software provides that option. This is an example of how the options might be presented in a typical graphical scp/SFTP client (this image is from the settings within WinSCP): Related Services / Offerings (1) Personal Webspace A static web page publishing service for individuals", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Salesforce", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the current implementation of Salesforce at SFU.", "Currently at SFU, Salesforce is implemented for:\n\nImproving prospective and incoming students\u2019 experience at SFU, and supporting strategic enrolment management university wide. Improving the student experience as it relates to academic advising, international services, and financial assistance. Lifelong Learning to track interactions with prospective students to courses and programs in various departments and supporting the overall enrollment goals.", "Prospective undergraduate students can:\n\nSubmit questions Sign up for events and tours Connect with an admissions advisor Get information on admission requirements, academic programs, admission application, fees and scholarships, and Residence.", "Undergraduate students can:\n\nSee who their advisors are Book, cancel or reschedule an appointment for academic advising, with the International Services for Students department, and with the Financial Aid and Awards department Connect with an advisor online with our LiveChat functionality Get information on advising, international services, financial aid, and various student experiential opportunities such as co-operative education.", "Staff can:\n\nTrack all interactions with constituents Provide event and tour registration Manage communication campaigns and measure its effectiveness Improve office efficiencies by automating processes Measure effectiveness by creating reports and dashboards on any information/data stored in Salesforce", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management ESM Vision and Operations", "8:00 PM \u2013 10:00 PM PT -\n\nfor the Production and Sandbox environments These activities do not require downtime Activities are typically infrastructure or database-related No announcement is provided to customers Weekly Service Updates Production Environment, occurs every Friday 9:00 PM to Saturday 1:00 AM (Pacific Time) Sandbox Environment, occurs every Friday 6:00 PM to Saturday 1:00 AM (Pacific Time) These activities require downtime Activities are typically service releases, bug fixes, or minor enhancements No announcement is provided to customers Major Release Updates TeamDynamix is releasing version 12.0 to the SFU environment May 31. Learn more about the changes by attending a training session , exploring the preview environment or reading the release notes Major release date is communicated at least 4 weeks in advance and notice is provided to registered customers Activities are related to new versions of TeamDynamix (e.g. 11.4 to 11.5 release) These activities require downtime on the environment specified (see below) Sandbox Environment Sandbox upgrade occurs one day before the announced release date, on a Friday Sandbox upgrade is scheduled to fall on Friday from", "9:00 PM\n\n(Pacific Time) \u2013 to the next day", "3:00 PM\n\n(Pacific Time) Production Environment Production Release date is scheduled to fall on a Saturday Production upgrade occurs on the release date from 9:00 PM (Pacific Time) \u2013 to the next day", "1:00 AM\n\n(Pacific Time) Emergency Updates Occurs on an as-needed basis when an emergency change/update is required Whenever possible, a 24-hour advance notice is provided to TeamDynamix Administrators Occurs between", "9:00 PM -\n\nto the next day", "1:00 AM\n\n(Pacific Time) , with more precise information given if/when emergency update event occurs", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Service Managers Overview", "This article covers the following topics:\n\nService Taxonomy What is a service category? What is a service? What is a service owner? What is a service offering? What is a service offering owner? Service Taxonomy The IT Services service catalogue houses all services (active and retired) using an IT service catalogue framework adapted from the EDUCAUSE paper The Higher Education IT Service Catalog: A Working Model for Comparison and Collaboration . This framework is a shared body of knowledge that leverages expertise, research and standards from the higher education IT sector to help institutions overcome common service catalogue challenges. What is a Service Category? \"A logical grouping of services that benefit from being managed together. These high-level groupings should be meaningful to the IT service provider to facilitate budgeting and governance of services. Some institutions might choose to make these groupings visible to end users, whereas some might not and might even have different groupings (see the discussion of \"views\" earlier in this document). These categories should reflect the strategic goals of the institution and align with the overall governance model. Governance of IT services, including deciding on major projects, developing strategy, and managing funding, is generally conducted by groups aligned with the service categories. Most service catalogs will consist of six to ten service categories. Examples of service categories might include communication and collaboration, infrastructure, and teaching and learning.\" - The Higher Education IT Service Catalogue Model (ECAR) Service categories accomplish multiple goals. Firstly, they help IT Services (ITS) represent the work being done. For example, ITS may have 10 services dedicated to infrastructure or 20 services dedicated to learning technologies. Secondly, they act as a logical grouping for services so they can be discovered through exploration. However, it's important to keep in mind that the vast majority of services are found through direct searching.", "This article covers the following topics:\n\nexample, ITS may have 10 services dedicated to infrastructure or 20 services dedicated to learning technologies. Secondly, they act as a logical grouping for services so they can be discovered through exploration. However, it's important to keep in mind that the vast majority of services are found through direct searching. To avoid category confusion and paralysis, ITS takes a best-fit approach for services that can span multiple categories. What is a Service? \" An end-to-end IT service that delivers value to customers, typically not identified by specific product or application names. The service combines people, processes, and technology to provide outputs or results that enable business capabilities or an end user's work activities and desired outcomes. \" - The Higher Education IT Service Catalogue Model (ECAR) In summary, a service is the management of people, process and technology to deliver something valuable to another group so they don\u2019t have to take on the associated costs or risks. For example, IT Services may manage a student application system by offering a service that takes care of the maintenance, updates, and security on behalf of Student Services. This provides something valuable without that group needing to take on additional resources. What is a Service Owner (SO)? \"A service owner is accountable for the delivery of an IT service and the service offerings within. The purpose of this leadership role is to ensure that the service receives strategic attention and appropriate resources to support the mission and needs of the institution. The SO is responsible for the service as a whole through its entire life cycle and is accountable to the person in charge of overall IT service delivery. The SO\u2019s accountability for a service is independent of where the underpinning technology components, processes, or professional capabilities needed to deliver the service and", "This article covers the following topics:\n\nis responsible for the service as a whole through its entire life cycle and is accountable to the person in charge of overall IT service delivery. The SO\u2019s accountability for a service is independent of where the underpinning technology components, processes, or professional capabilities needed to deliver the service and its offerings reside.\" - IT Service Ownership in Higher Education As service owner also ensures the content for their service is up to date in the ITS service catalogue. In summary, a service owner is: A leadership role accountable for the delivery of an IT service and service offerings within. This accountability is independent of where the underpinning technology components, processes, or professional capabilities needed to deliver the service and offerings reside. This role ensures that the service receives strategic attention and appropriate resources to support its mission and needs within the institution. This role is also responsible for the service through its entire life cycle. What is a Service Offering? \"The specific technology-focused activity or product used to deliver a service. These can be software bundles, custom application solutions, or other technology that enables a service offering. Multiple service offerings might exist for a single service.\" - The Higher Education IT Service Catalogue Model (ECAR) For example, a service managing campus printers may offer a way to: Request repairs Assign a new printing key FOB Deploy a new printer to an office What is a Service Offering Manager (SOM)? \"A service offering manager is a boots-on-the-ground role that is responsible for the delivery of an IT service offering. The purpose of this role is to ensure comprehensive, efficient, and transparent management of and communication about the IT service offering in accordance with the service strategy. This role is accountable to the SO for the design, implementation, and ongoing maintenance", "This article covers the following topics:\n\nresponsible for the delivery of an IT service offering. The purpose of this role is to ensure comprehensive, efficient, and transparent management of and communication about the IT service offering in accordance with the service strategy. This role is accountable to the SO for the design, implementation, and ongoing maintenance and support of the offering. As with the service owner, the SOM\u2019s responsibility for a specific service offering is independent of where the underpinning technology components, processes, or professional capabilities reside.\" - IT Service Ownership in Higher Education The service offering manager is also responsible for updating any service offerings in the ITS service catalogue. In summary, this role is: A tactical role responsible for the delivery of an IT service offering. Accountable to the service owner for the design, implementation, ongoing maintenance, and support of the offering. Ensures comprehensive, efficient, and transparent management and communication about the IT service offering in accordance with a service strategy. This role can be independent of where the underpinning technology components, processes, or professional capabilities reside.", "Infrastructure Network and Connectivity Management Wireless Connectivity (Wi-Fi)", "OVERVIEW\n\nEvery device comes with a network interface card that helps devices connect to networks. These interfaces have unique MAC (Media Access Control) addresses, also known as a hardware or physical address , that use a 12-digit identifier to broker your connection to the Internet/WiFi. An example of what a MAC address may look like is:", "11:A0:B2:33:C4:44\n\n. In this article, we'll walk through how you can find these addresses to help with WiFi troubleshooting.", "This will cover:\n\nDesktop Computers Mobile Devices Desktop Computers Desktop computers include traditional computer workstations that you would find in a home or office (such as a Windows PC), or portable laptops (such as a MacBook). macOS Select the Apple menu at the top left of your desktop > System Preferences . Click Network . Select the WiFi network you'd like to view the MAC address for. Click Advanced . Click Hardware . The MAC address will be listed. Windows Click Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center . Click the WiFi network you would like to view the MAC address for. Click Details . The MAC address is listed under the Physical Address section. Linux Open a terminal or console window . Type ifconfig . The MAC address is listed as HWaddr. Chrome OS to your Chromebook. Click the time (bottom right). Click Network . Click the network you would like to view the MAC address for. The MAC address is listed below. Mobile Devices Mobile devices include smart phones, such as an iPhone or Android phone. iOS Open Settings > > then tap the (i) icon next to your wireless network. The MAC address is listed as the Wi-Fi address . Android From Home, tap Menu > Settings > Connections . Tap the Wi-Fi connection name . Tap the gear for the current network. Tap View More . Scroll down to the MAC address .", "Teaching and Learning Polling and Surveys SurveyMonkey", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article outlines the Terms of Service for SurveyMonkey. You can find the following information on this page: Terms of Service to know before logging into SurveyMonkey Terms of Service User Agreement Personal information access and disclosure Guidelines on the provision of data by as a survey owner or participant Access Support Terms of service to know before logging into SurveyMonkey The information on this form and the login page is collected for the University under the general authority of the University Act (R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 468), the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (R.S.B.C.), and SFU Policy GP-24, \u201cFair Use of Information and Communications Technology\u201d. It is related directly to and needed by SurveyMonkey and the University in order to administer and support accounts and surveys. The information collected at the time of login will be used only for the purposes of sufficiently identifying a unique user of the system or for troubleshooting sign-on issues. If you have any questions about the collection and use of this information please contact Mike Stanger, Associate Director of Learning & Community Systems, IT Services. Phone: 604.816.3983. email: mstanger@sfu.ca . By using SurveyMonkey with your SFU Computing ID, you agree to be bound by SFU's Terms of Service for SurveyMonkey. Terms of Service As SurveyMonkey is an external provider of service to SFU, support for the service is provided directly by SurveyMonkey and SFU policies and guidelines related to the use of personal information are subject to SFU's Terms of Service for SurveyMonkey. Your use of the SurveyMonkey service at SFU is voluntary, and your use of the service indicates agreement with Terms of Service Agreements for SurveyMonkey Inc, and the SFU Terms of Service for the use of SurveyMonkey together with your SFU Computing Account. SurveyMonkey is hosted in Canada,", "OVERVIEW\n\nfor SurveyMonkey. Your use of the SurveyMonkey service at SFU is voluntary, and your use of the service indicates agreement with Terms of Service Agreements for SurveyMonkey Inc, and the SFU Terms of Service for the use of SurveyMonkey together with your SFU Computing Account. SurveyMonkey is hosted in Canada, however the parent company, SurveyMonkey, Inc. is owned and operated in the United States of America. Use of the SurveyMonkey service is subject to SurveyMonkey's Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Services Agreement . User Agreement The SurveyMonkey Service is available for teaching, learning, research, and administration purposes at Simon Fraser University. The following constitutes an agreement describing the terms in which you may access and use the SurveyMonkey service. In order to become a user or continue as a user of this service, you must read and accept all of the terms and conditions of this agreement. If you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you must not use or access the service. Your use of the SurveyMonkey service indicates your acceptance of the terms of this agreement. This agreement may be modified at any time, without prior notice, by posting amended terms for acceptance on this site. Your continued use of the SurveyMonkey service indicates your acceptance of any amendments to these Terms of Service. Personal Information Access and Disclosure By using the SurveyMonkey Service, you agree to make your contact information available to SurveyMonkey administrators who are located in U.S for the purpose of support and system administration. Survey data will be stored in Canada. However, the parent company SurveyMonkey, Inc. is owned and registered as a company in the United States of America. Note that due to the special circumstances and requirements of British Columbia's Freedom of Information and Protection", "OVERVIEW\n\nthe purpose of support and system administration. Survey data will be stored in Canada. However, the parent company SurveyMonkey, Inc. is owned and registered as a company in the United States of America. Note that due to the special circumstances and requirements of British Columbia's Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FIPPA), the contract with SurveyMonkey LLC for their SurveyMonkey survey software makes a specific exemption to their standard policy. That exemption provides for extraordinary cases where staff in the USA would access surveys and survey data hosted in Canada. That exemption reads: [...] the Customer\u2019s survey questions and responses (the \u201cSurvey Data\u201d) will only be stored in Canada. SurveyMonkey employees and subcontractors (the \u201cCustomer Support Staff\u201d) will not access the Survey Data from outside Canada, except (a) when authorized by the Customer for the purpose of implementing, maintaining, repairing, troubleshooting or upgrading the customer\u2019s account or the Services (the \u201cCustomer Support Services\u201d), or (b) for data recovery purposes in the event of a system failure. Customer Support Staff will only ask for authorization to access the Survey Data as a last resort, after exploring every reasonable alternative. After receiving such authorization, Customer Support Staff will only access as much Survey Data as required to perform the Customer Support Services and will limit the period of access to the minimum time necessary. If the Customer does not authorize access to the Survey Data when reasonably requested to do so, the Customer acknowledges and agrees that as a consequence of the constraints imposed above, the Customer Support Services available to it in connection with the Services may be reduced or delayed and that any commitments, representations or warranties made by SurveyMonkey regarding Customer Support Services do not apply to accounts that have not enabled such access. Guidelines on the", "OVERVIEW\n\nof the constraints imposed above, the Customer Support Services available to it in connection with the Services may be reduced or delayed and that any commitments, representations or warranties made by SurveyMonkey regarding Customer Support Services do not apply to accounts that have not enabled such access. Guidelines on the provision of data by you as a survey owner or participant You should not disclose personal or private information about yourself that you do not wish others to see. Any personal information that you intend to publish (i.e. disclose) about a third party must be with the written consent of the third party prior to publishing it. Please contact the Office of Research Ethics if you have any questions about research involving humans or human data (e.g., consent processes, data management plans, maintaining participant confidentiality). Please contact the Information and Privacy Officer in the Archives and Records Management Department for privacy related concerns. You may not make the disclosure of personal information to SurveyMonkey a requirement for participation in University-related activities except as permitted by the BC Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act. Access SurveyMonkey Service is available to Simon Fraser University faculty, staff and students with an active SFU Computing ID. Support All support for the SurveyMonkey Service, including all end-user and survey support, is provided by SurveyMonkey. Requests for SurveyMonkey support can be made by directly within the SurveyMonkey application via the help and support contact links.", "SurveyMonkey provides direct support for:\n\nproduct feature capabilities surveys creation and best practices technical issues Any issues reported by survey respondents to the survey administrator should also be directed to SurveyMonkey directly. SFU IT Services can only provide support related to account authorization and access through the CAS login page. Related Services / Offerings (1) SurveyMonkey SurveyMonkey is a full-featured web survey tool with a wide variety of question types and reporting. This service is provided to support surveys for university-related teaching, learning, research, and administrative purposes.", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Student Computer Labs Overview This article details the list of software installed across all general-purpose computer labs at SFU campuses. List of Software", "PC\n\nWindows 11 23H2 Mac macOS 14 Sonoma Internet, Multimedia and Utility Adobe Reader \u2713 \u2713 Cyberduck \u2713 FileZilla \u2713 MS Edge \u2713 Google Chrome \u2713 \u2713 Handbrake \u2713 Microsoft Remote Desktop \u2713 Mozilla Firefox \u2713 \u2713 OpenWebStart (JRE) \u2713 \u2713 PuTTY \u2713 Skype \u2713 TheUnarchiver \u2713 UltiMaker Cura \u2713 VLC Media Player \u2713 \u2713 WinRAR \u2713 WinSCP \u2713 Zoom \u2713 Microsoft Office 2021 2021 Adobe Creative Cloud", "AQ 3148.1 & 3148.2\n\nMath & Stats", "JMP\n\n18 18 Maple 2022 2022", "MATLAB\n\n2023a 2022a", "R\n\n\u2713 \u2713 R Packages \u2713 R Studio \u2713 \u2713", "SAS\n\n9.4", "SPSS\n\n27 29 Apple iLife & iWork GarageBand \u2713 iMovie \u2713 Keynote \u2713 Numbers \u2713 Pages \u2713 Xcode \u2713 Other ArcGIS \u2713 Audacity \u2713 Google Earth Pro \u2713 \u2713 JCreator \u2713 Maxima (wxMaxima) \u2713 Mendeley Desktop \u2713 MiKTeX \u2713 MobaXterm \u2713 Notepad++ \u2713 NVivo \u2713 \u2713 OpenJDK \u2713 \u2713 Python 3.x \u2713 Safe Exan Browser \u2713 \u2713 Stella \u2713 Vensim \u2713 Visual Studio Code \u2713 Zotero \u2713 \u2713", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Student Computer Labs", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article details the location, hours and services available at student computer labs across SFU campuses. Burnaby Campus Surrey Campus Vancouver Campus Note : Hours may change during exam period, reading break, and Statutory holidays. Burnaby Campus Location Current Hours Type Other Services", "WMC 2502\n\nView on RoomFinder Monday to Friday, 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM. PC & Mac B&W Printing", "AQ 3148\n\nView on RoomFinder Monday to Friday, 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM.", "PC\n\nB&W Printing Colour Printing Cardless printing cash loading machine Bennett Library View on RoomFinder All computer labs in Bennett Library are open. Check Bennett Library's hours . PC & Mac B&W Printing Colour Printing Scanner Photocopier Surrey Campus Location Hours Type Other Services Fire Fighter Lab (SRY C 2300) View on RoomFinder As long as the campus is open, the labs are accessible to students using their electronic key cards. PC & Mac B&W Printing Colour Printing Scanner Photocopier Fraser Library (SRY C 3600) View on RoomFinder All computer labs in Fraser Library are open. Check Fraser Library's hours . PC & Mac B&W Printing Colour Printing Scanner Photocopier Vancouver Campus Location Hours Type Other Services Drop-in Lab (HCC 1340) View on RoomFinder Monday - Friday, 9:00 AM - 7:00 PM PC & Mac B&W Printing Colour Printing Papercut Vending Machine IBM Lab (HCC 1350) View on RoomFinder Monday - Friday, 9:00 AM - 7:00 PM", "PC\n\nB&W Printing Colour Printing Publishing Lab (HCC 2960) View on RoomFinder Monday - Friday, 9:00 AM - 7:00 PM Mac Belzberg Library (HCC 1000) View on RoomFinder Check Belzberg Library's Hours . PC & Mac B&W Printing Colour Printing Scanner Photocopier Software and Printing View available software Learn more about printing services in libraries No Food in Labs Policy There is a strict no food policy in the labs. This is to help ensure that every student has access to functioning computer equipment. Eating in the labs may result in your lab access being revoked.", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "OVERVIEW\n\nSFU faculty and staff are able to remotely connect to on-campus managed Windows computers by using SFU's Virtual Private Network and Microsoft's Remote Desktop Protocol.", "This is a convenient way to:\n\nRemotely log in to on-campus managed Windows computers from a Mac or", "PC\n\n. Access software and files from office workstations. Connect with other on-campus resources (such as shared-drives and printers). Note : We recommend that undergraduate and graduate students see Remote Lab Access for a more friendly experience. How to Connect", "Step 0:\n\nSet up MFA and SFU VPN You won't be able to use remote desktop without MFA or SFU VPN. Already have MFA and SFU VPN? Skip and proceed to Step 1.", "Setup instructions:\n\nSet up MFA Set up SFU VPN", "Step 1:\n\nConnect to SFU VPN Sign in to SFU VPN app with your SFU computing ID and MFA code.", "Step 2:\n\nCreate a Remote Desktop File While signed in to SFU VPN, ceate a remote desktop file (.rdp) within SFU's Remote Desktop portal. Create a Remote Desktop File \u2192", "Step 3:\n\nOpen your remote desktop file while connected to SFU VPN While signed in to SFU VPN, open your remote desktop file (.rdp). Frequently Asked Questions about Windows Remote Desktop I can't find my office computer in the Remote Desktop portal. If you're unable to locate your office workstation, it may not be enrolled in SFU's Managed Windows service. These can include independent local computers purchased and used at SFU but are not centrally managed by IT Services. If you need remote access to an independent workstation, please contact your departmental IT support point. Do I need to create a new remote desktop file for each computer I want to access? Yes. The easiest way to find and connect to on-campus computers is to create a separate RDP file for each one you need to access. My Apple device won't open the RDP file I downloaded. What should I do? Apple devices (such as Macs) will need an app to run files using Microsoft's remote desktop protocol.", "For SFU managed Mac devices:\n\nIf you are connecting from a device that is managed by SFU, then search for the Microsoft Remote Desktop app on your device or download it from SFU's Software Centre app on the device.", "For personal Apple devices:\n\nIf you are connecting from a device that isn't managed by SFU, then we reccomend downloading Microsoft's recomended software for RDP files .", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "OVERVIEW\n\nSFU faculty and staff are able to remotely connect to on-campus managed Mac computers by using SFU's Virtual Private Network and Apple's built-in Screen Sharing app.", "This is a convenient way to:\n\nRemotely log in to on-campus managed Mac computers from a remote Mac . Access software and files from office workstations. Connect with other on-campus resources (such as shared-drives and printers). Note : We recommend that undergraduate and graduate students see Remote Lab Access for a more friendly experience. How to Connect (Mac to Mac Only) SFU managed Macs are pre-configured with Apple's built-in remote management settings to help administrators troubleshoot issues. For you to use remote management, your user profile will need to be added as an allowed account for your on-campus Mac.", "Step 1:\n\nAsk your departmental IT staff to configure your on-campus Mac Only IT administrators can complete the following steps. Open \"System Preferences\" Selecting \"Sharing\" Select \"Remote Management\" Under \"Allow access for\" select the + icon. Select the user account to add. * Also consider disabling sleep mode for a reliable connection. Step 2: Set up MFA and SFU VPN You won't be able to use remote desktop without MFA or SFU VPN. Already have MFA and SFU VPN? Skip and proceed to Step 3.", "Setup instructions:\n\nSet up MFA Set up SFU VPN", "Step 3:\n\nSign in to SFU VPN Sign in to SFU VPN app with your SFU computing ID and MFA code.", "Step 4:\n\nConnect to your on-campus Mac While signed in to SFU VPN, open Apple's built-in Screen Sharing app and enter the hostname of your on-campus Mac. See \"How to Configure Remote Access for Managed Macs\" for detailed instructions. How to Configure Remote Access for Managed Macs These instructions are for connecting a remote Mac to a managed Mac on campus. Apple provides a fairly simple resource for remote control like Microsoft does with Windows \"Remote Desktop\". It is not as feature-rich or mature as Microsoft Remote Desktop but it gets the job done. Note : Macs can use simple VNC, but we will never use this . We will allow the Screen Sharing service. When we do, we should take extra measures to tunnel through SSH to ensure it is encrypted. One thing to look out for: The majority (over 85%) of managed Macs at the University are already configured for Remote Management . Both services cannot be configured simultaneously , so the route you take will depend on how your Mac is currently configured. With Apple screen sharing the user ID and password are sent encrypted, as are keystrokes and mouse movements. Scenario 1: No Screen Sharing or Remote Management configured Open System Preferences > Sharing Click on Screen Sharing Be sure to only allow access for your main user Stop here. Do not ever enable VNC Note : We are NOT configuring VNC access at SFU, and doing so reduces security of our systems. Never, ever promote this practice. Scenario 2: SFU managed Mac that has Remote Management configured It is still possible for an administrator to allow your Mac's main user to access, but the process is a little different. Only one service can be configured, so you must add your user in the \"Remote Management\" dialog. Open", "Step 4:\n\nScenario 2: SFU managed Mac that has Remote Management configured It is still possible for an administrator to allow your Mac's main user to access, but the process is a little different. Only one service can be configured, so you must add your user in the \"Remote Management\" dialog. Open System Preferences: Sharing Don't touch the Screen Sharing option. As an administrator, highlight the \"Remote Management\" section. On the right-hand dialog, only the first two options are necessary (observe and control) Enabling the remaining options will allow features only possible via Apple Remote Desktop . This is not necessary. If you are not the administrator of your Mac, please contact your local IT support personnel to make these changes for you. Connect to your Mac using the built-in Screen Sharing application.", "You can find this app in:\n\n/System/Library/CoreServices/Applications/Screen Sharing.app", "Power considerations:\n\nRemote wake services designed for Windows PCs are not reliable on routed networks for Macs. As such, if you need reliable remote access to your Mac, please consider temporarily disabling system sleep.", "Firewall considerations:\n\nThe service connects on TCP port 5900 (just like VNC). The user ID and password are sent encrypted, as are keystrokes/mouse moves. The managed Mac firewall is set to allow connections at a rate of 6 failures per 30 seconds. Brute force attempts past this rate will be blocked.", "Tunneling through SSH:\n\nAnother secure approach is to use an ssh tunnel for screen sharing. Do-able, but requires a bit of set up to work. Using SSH port forwarding and VNC you can connect to your remote desktop using the Screen Sharing application. First connect to your machine over SSH and port forward 5900: $ ssh sfuid@mac.its.sfu.ca -L 5900:localhost:5900 Now open \"Screen Sharing.app\" and connect to \"localhost\", specifically (you've already made a SSH connection to your Mac in this last step) This way all portions of your connection are encrypted. For additional information, see Mac screen sharing by Apple . Frequently Asked Questions about Mac Remote Desktop My on-campus Mac isn't responding. What should I do? If inactive, on-campus devices will enter a sleep mode to conserve energy. For a reliable connection to your on-campus Mac, you will need to ensure that sleep mode is disabled. To help with energy conservation, SFU recommends that you only do this as a temporary measure. SFU doesn't centrally manage my on-campus Mac. Will I still need to use SFU VPN to connect? Yes. Remote connection protocols (VNC, RDP and ARD) are all blocked while off campus to protect the SFU community from common threats.", "SFU VPN\n\nprovides an encrypted and secure connection to the SFU campus network and is required for remote connections to on-campus devices.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to use bulk actions on the ServiceHub Ticketing App.", "VIDEO DEMO\n\nHow To Use Bulk Actions (Video)", "DETAILS\n\nNote : Bulk Action feature is only available under the \"Tickets\" section on a ticketing app. You should be able to see checkboxes next to each ticket. Step 1 . Navigate to your ticketing application and select the \"Tickets\" header to view all tickets or select one of the pre-made searches (e.g., \"Assigned to Me\") under Tickets. Step 2 . If you wish to filter your tickets, select the Green Filter button. Step 3 . Filter the tickets based on your needs. We recommend filtering by Current Status and Group Responsibility . Step 4 . Check the tickets you wish to apply a Bulk Action and select Action to complete your Bulk Action.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management ESM Vision and Operations At the beginning of each quarter, the multi-tenant Sandbox", "environment is \"refreshed\", meaning:\n\nThe content of the sandbox is wiped out and replaced with a copy of the production. Any changes made within the Sandbox will be overwritten during this refresh. TeamDynamix Sandbox Refresh Article (Required Login to TeamDynamix) - Sandbox Refresh Cycle , article time is listed as Eastern Time Zone (Columbus, Ohio, USA). Quarterly sandbox refresh data and outage schedule - for Canada", "(in Pacific Time):\n\nThe", "USA\n\nsandbox refresh is usually the first business Monday of the quarter (Q1-Jan, Q2-Apr, Q3-Jul, Q4-Oct), the Canada sandbox refresh is the first business Tuesday of the quarter, after the US refresh. The sandbox refresh schedule follows the Statutory Holidays in", "USA\n\n(not Canada). Data for the refresh is the", "8:30 PM\n\n(Pacific Time) of Production snap shot of the Thursday prior to the refresh. The refreshes outage starts at", "5:00 AM\n\n(Pacific Time), all sandboxes will be offline for 4 hours , or until end of day the latest. Sandbox Refreshes Schedule Sandbox Refresh Period United States (Monday) Canada (Tuesday) 2025 Q4 - Fall 2025 October 6 October 7 2026 Q1 - Winter 2026 January 5 January 6 2026 Q2 - Spring 2026 April 6 April 7 2026 Q3 - Summer 2026 July 6 July 7 2026 Q4 - Fall 2026 October 5 October 6", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management TDX - Project Essentials - These docs are available to be downloaded (see right hand side of this article): Mapping TDX to PMI Phases.pptx TeamDynamix Training Supplement for Project Managers v11.3.docx TeamDynamix \u2013 Readiness \u2013 Knowledge Base https://solutions.teamdynamix.com/TDClient/1965/Portal/KB/?CategoryID=20782 Project Management Essentials \u2013 from TDX Readiness Circuit Training Dec 2021 TDX Training Videos here \u2013 Project Management Essential Video: Project Management Essential", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For TDX Admins TeamDynamix Readiness - Circuit Training Videos Recorded: December 2021 PowerPoint presentation is on the Attachment on the Right Hand Side Frame on this page *The maroon coloured topics are the minimum that TeamDynamix Admin should watch TDX Circuit Training Week 1 01. Introduction 1 hour - 30 min 02. Foundation 2 hours 1 hour - 30 min 04. Knowledge Management 1 hour - 30 min Week 2 05. Core Integration 1 hour - 30 min 06. Service Catalogue Management 1 hour - 30 min 07. Ticketing Essentials 1 hour - 30 min Week 3 08. Advanced Ticketing 1 hour - 30 min 09. Asset Management 1 hour - 30 min 10. Project Management Essentials 1 hour - 30 min 01. Introduction", "Description:\n\nHigh level concepts within TeamDynamix to give you a good baseline of knowledge going into the subsequent sessions", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in learning more about the structure of TeamDynamix", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 01_Introduction 02. Foundation", "Description:\n\nThe essential building blocks of TeamDynamix, e.g., Importing in departments, building data, etc.", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in learning more about the foundational configuration of TeamDynamix", "Video Length:\n\n2 hours Video: 02_Foundation", "Description:\n\nSetting up the customer-facing site for submitting requests (projects and tickets). Browsing the knowledge base, and communicating relevant information to customers about project and service management", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Web developer(s) Members of the marketing team", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 03_Client_Portal 04. Knowledge Management", "Description:\n\nHow to create and manage knowledge articles, drafts, and categories inside TeamDynamix. Also includes permissions for internal vs external documentation.", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in learning more about the knowledge base of TeamDynamix, including: Knowledge managers Knowledge creators/contributors", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 04_Knowledge_Management 05. Core Integrations", "Description:\n\nSAML authentication setup, bulk user management options, and email integration tools within TeamDynamix", "Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation", "Technical resources responsible for:\n\nAuthentication User management Email management Anyone interested in learning more about integration areas in TeamDynamix", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video 05. Core Integration 06. Service Catalogue Management", "Description:\n\nHow to build a Service Catalog within TeamDynamix", "Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in learning more about setting up a service catalog, including: Service owners Help desk contributors Team leads", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 06_Service_Catalogue 07. Ticketing Essential", "Description:\n\nThe essential configuration of ticket management within TeamDynamix", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in setting up an application for tracking tickets in TeamDynamix, including: Service owners Help desk contributors Team leads", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 07_Ticketing_Essential 08. Advanced Ticketing", "Description:\n\nThe advanced configuration of ticket management within TeamDynamix Follow up session to Ticketing Essentials with additional configuration features", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in setting up an application for tracking tickets in TeamDynamix, including: Service owners Help desk contributors Team leads", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 08_Advanced_Ticketing 09. Asset Management", "Description:\n\nTracking assets and key data associated with assets such as vendors, product types, and product models", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in setting up an asset application for tracking of assets in TeamDynamix, including Asset managers", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 09_Asset_Management 10. Project Management Essentials", "Managing active, \"in-flight\" projects in TeamDynamix, including:\n\nProject management Project plans Issues Links The briefcase Other components of project records", "Intended Audience:\n\nAny user that will be a TeamDynamix administrator Project manager of an implementation Anyone interested in learning more about project management in TeamDynamix, including Project managers who are a dedicated part of the implementation/configuration team PMO employees who are a dedicated part of the implementation/configuration team", "Video Length:\n\n1 hour 30 min Video: 10_Project_Management_Essential", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft Teams General Users", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article references guidance published by SFU's Archives and Records Management", "department. To view the original publication, visit:\n\nhttps://www.sfu.ca/archives/records-management/links-resources1.html", "This article includes:\n\nRoles and Responsibilities M365 and the Records Management Lifecycle MS Teams Site Management Using and Maintaining Final Disposition Access and Privacy Introduction MS Teams is a communication and collaboration tool that has been provided to SFU employees as part of SFUs Microsoft 365 (M365) installation. Features of MS Teams include team chat or channels, one-on-one chat, document collaboration, video meetings, and integration with other Microsoft applications. When used as directed by this guideline, MS Teams can reduce reliance on email, facilitate document sharing, enable remote access, and support document synchronization. This guide provides SFU employees with resources to help share, organize, manage, retain, and dispose of the information they create using MS Teams in accordance with records management best practice. Roles and Responsibilities As a public body, SFU has a responsibility to create and keep records that document its decision-making and business activities. MS Teams is a communication and collaboration tool; it does not have the necessary functionality and controls to be considered a record keeping system. Therefore, when working in MS Teams: employees are responsible for ensuring that the critical information they create or receive is filed in their departments record keeping system; and departments are responsible for maintaining a reliable record-keeping system, such as a Shared Network Drive, SharePoint on Premise Site, OnBase, etc. M365 and the Records Management Lifecycle The records management lifecycle is a framework that describes the distinct phases of a record's existence, from creation to final disposition. At SFU there are several different tools that individuals and departments can use to create, use, maintain and retain records. OneDrive allows account holders to securely store, share and synchronise their individual files and folders from any device. OneDrive can be used during the creation and use phase of the records management lifecycle. For more information about", "This article includes:\n\nthat individuals and departments can use to create, use, maintain and retain records. OneDrive allows account holders to securely store, share and synchronise their individual files and folders from any device. OneDrive can be used during the creation and use phase of the records management lifecycle. For more information about OneDrive see OneDrive Best Practices for SFU Employees. MS Teams is a communication and collaboration tool. MS Teams can be used during the creation and use phase of the records management lifecycle. Once records reach the maintenance and retention phase of their lifecycle they can be transferred into a shared records repository (Shared Network Drives, ERMS, etc.) or continued to be managed in place in Teams. More guidance about records repositories is in development. Please visit the Records Management Links and Resources page for more information. As ITS continues to introduce new Microsoft 365 services, additional tools for managing electronic records, will be made available. For more information see Microsoft 365 at SFU Roadmap . MS Teams Site Management Each MS Teams site passes through the following four phases: planning; documenting and implementing; using and maintaining; and final disposition. Listed below are record-keeping best practices MS Teams site owners and users should keep in mind during each phase. Planning MS Teams sites should be established with the final disposition of both the site and the content on the site in mind. Since MS Teams sites are not intended for long-term storage of official university records, site administrators should have a plan in place for transferring records when they enter the maintenance and retention phase of the records management lifecycle.", "Before creating an MS Teams site, consider the following:\n\nWhat is the purpose of the site? How will Channels be structured? Who should have access to the site? How long will the site be used? Who will be responsible for managing records created and shared on the site? When will records be transferred from the site to the department\u2019s records repository? Who will decide when the site is inactive and ready to be deleted? Documenting and Implementing Create a management plan for your MS Teams site and ensure it is shared with all site members. A management plan should include the following information: Purpose of the site Membership of the site Channel names and description Permissions structure for the site and channels Folder structure Naming convention (consult the Standard Naming Convention for Electronic Records for more information ) Records retention requirements Plan for transferring records from the site to the department\u2019s records repository Plan for how to identify when the site is inactive Plan for deleting the site Using and Maintaining Uploading Documents Documents can be uploaded to a MS Teams site, to a specific Channel, shared in Channel posts, and shared in one-to-one chat. This can create file duplication and make finding information difficult. By establishing a folder structure and maintaining a consistent filing system, departments can reduce duplication and facilitate access to the records they create and store in MS Teams. Tips Keep your folder structure simple. Avoid nested folder structures of more than two levels. Keep in mind the purpose of your site - do not set up directories which are out of scope. Upload documents to the appropriate folder and then share links. This will help avoid duplicating documents. Keep in mind that files uploaded within Channels are stored in an associated SharePoint library. However, files shared within one-to-one chat messages are stored in OneDrive.", "Before creating an MS Teams site, consider the following:\n\nset up directories which are out of scope. Upload documents to the appropriate folder and then share links. This will help avoid duplicating documents. Keep in mind that files uploaded within Channels are stored in an associated SharePoint library. However, files shared within one-to-one chat messages are stored in OneDrive. Adopt a file naming convention. Version Control MS Teams has built in version control. Every time you save a file a new version is created. You can view, compare and restore previous versions of a document.", "Things to keep in mind:\n\nIf you download a document, change the title and then re-upload it, a separate document will be saved. If you download a document, make changes and then re-upload it, a new version will be created. If you edit a document online, a new version will be created. If there are multiple editors making changes to the same document off-line, it may be necessary to merge versions to ensure all changes are captured. Departments may want to consider internal procedures for how they collaborate on documents to avoid confusion. At the moment, ITS and Microsoft have not limited the number of versions saved for a single document. This may change in the future. Departments may want to consider internal procedures for saving important drafts outside of MS Teams. Channels MS Teams are made up of Channels, which are the \u201cspaces\u201d where group conversations and document collaboration take place. Channels can help Teams users classify and organize content created and/or uploaded in Teams. Each channel should be dedicated to a specific topic, department, or project and structured to encourage targeted content development. For example, establish a channel for a specific project or an event (for example, Department Website Redesign, or Fall Convocation 2023 Planning). Chat MS Teams also includes a 1:1 chat feature, which allows users to chat directly with another person. Reminder Files uploaded using chat are stored in OneDrive. Limit the amount of personal information shared using chat as chat conversations are subject to the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act. Documenting Decision Making The chat and channels features should not be used for formal decision-making (e.g., contract negotiation, policy approval, etc.). These tools were created with document collaboration and communication in mind and not for documenting official direction or approvals. Retention policies for MS Teams are under", "Things to keep in mind:\n\nof Privacy Act. Documenting Decision Making The chat and channels features should not be used for formal decision-making (e.g., contract negotiation, policy approval, etc.). These tools were created with document collaboration and communication in mind and not for documenting official direction or approvals. Retention policies for MS Teams are under development. Once finalized, new policies may impact the length of time chats are retained. As such, users should not count on chats to be permanently available. Therefore, formal decision-making should be documented in meeting minutes, email correspondence, memos, briefing notes, etc., and stored in a centrally accessible location (e.g., meeting minutes stored on a department\u2019s Shared Network Drive). If, however, a formal decision is made using chat or channels users should ensure that the decision is captured (e.g., screen shot, follow-up email, etc.) and that all of the correct members of a team are informed of the decision and have access to the necessary records. Recording Meetings Like Zoom, MS Teams includes an option for recording meetings. There are many privacy considerations that should be addressed prior to recording a meeting. Staff meetings, academic advising sessions, job interviews etc., have not typically been recorded at SFU. The Archives strongly recommends against recording meetings for the purposes of administrative convenance or as a means of compiling meeting minutes and notes. For more information about recording meetings see Zoom Privacy and Security . Although developed for Zoom, these guidelines can be applied to MS Teams. Final Disposition As mentioned previously, MS Teams is not considered a long-term storage repository for official university records. While the majority of records created using MS Teams will be considered transitory, the specific retention and disposition requirements of an MS Teams site will depend on the purposes of the site and the type of records created and", "Things to keep in mind:\n\nis not considered a long-term storage repository for official university records. While the majority of records created using MS Teams will be considered transitory, the specific retention and disposition requirements of an MS Teams site will depend on the purposes of the site and the type of records created and stored on the site. Refer to the Records Retention Schedules and Disposition Authorities (RRSDAs) and Official, Transitory and Personal Records: A Guide for SFU Employees. for additional information about retention and disposition requirements. Tips Once collaboration has been completed, ensure that records are saved in your departments record keeping system. Be aware that when a Channel is deleted, any files shared within the channel are still stored in the associated SharePoint library connected to the Teams Site. Therefore, administrators need to delete all documents from the library which are not meant to be retained as records. Records on Teams sites should not be retained longer that what is outlined in the RRSDAs. Get into the habit of doing routine disposition checks, during which you delete files you no longer need and save those that you do need to keep to your department\u2019s records repository. Create channels with a known conclusion in mind; this makes it easier to set aside a specific date for capturing and transferring records. Access and Privacy All information created or received in MS Teams is subject to access requests under the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FOIPPA) and must be produced in the case of a FOIPPA access request, this includes messages shared in chats and channels. Prior to launch, a privacy impact assessment was completed for MS Teams. However, when using Teams it is still best practice to limit the sharing of sensitive or confidential information just as you would with any", "Things to keep in mind:\n\ncase of a FOIPPA access request, this includes messages shared in chats and channels. Prior to launch, a privacy impact assessment was completed for MS Teams. However, when using Teams it is still best practice to limit the sharing of sensitive or confidential information just as you would with any other communication tool. Additional Resources See Microsoft Teams for more information. Related Articles (2) File ownership in a team vs. a chat This article describes the file ownership in a team and chat on Microsoft Teams. Recommended Usage for File Storage and Collaboration Learn more about the differences between Microsoft Teams and OneDrive for file storage and collaboration. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft Teams Microsoft Teams (MS Teams) is a virtual collaboration app that brings together Microsoft 365 services (such as Office and OneDrive) to keep you virtually connected to the SFU community from anywhere at any time.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Microsoft OneDrive", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article references guidelines published by SFU's Archives and Records Management", "department. To view the original publication, visit:\n\nhttps://www.sfu.ca/archives/records-management/links-resources1.html", "This Article Includes:\n\nM365 and the Records Management Lifecycle Managing Records in OneDrive Introduction OneDrive is a document hosting and synchronization service that has been provided to SFU faculty, staff, and students as part SFUs Microsoft 365 (M365) installation. When used as described in this guideline, OneDrive can reduce reliance on email, facilitate document sharing, enable remote access, and support document synchronization. This guideline provides SFU employees with resources to help organize, manage, retain, and dispose of the documents they store and share in their OneDrive accounts in accordance with records management best practice.", "M365 AND THE RECORDS MANAGEMENT LIFECYCLE\n\nThe records management lifecycle is framework that describes the distinct phases of a record\u2019s existence, from creation to final disposition. At SFU, there are several different tools that individuals and departments can use to create, use, maintain, and retain records. OneDrive allows account holders to securely store, share and synchronise their individual files and folders from any device. OneDrive can be used during the creation and use phase of the records management lifecycle. MS Teams is a communication and collaborative tool. MS Teams can be used during the creation and use phase of the records management lifecycle. For more information see MS Teams Best Practices. Once records reach the maintenance and retention phase of their lifecycle, they can be transferred into a shared records repository (such as a Shared Network Drives, ERMS, etc.) or they can continue to be managed in place in Teams. More guidance about records repositories is in development. Please visit the Records Management Links and Resources page for more information. As ITS continues to introduce new Microsoft 365 services, additional tools for managing electronic records, such as SharePoint Online, will be made available. For more information see Microsoft 365 at SFU Roadmap . Managing Records in OneDrive OneDrive is not meant to be a central location for the long-term storage of official university records. OneDrive should be used as a place to draft and develop official university records. Official university records should be transferred to a central storage location (e.g., Share drive) or collaboration site (e.g., MS Teams) when they are ready for review and/or sharing. For more information about how to identify official university records, please see Transitory, Official and Personal Records: A Guide for SFU Employees . What to store in OneDrive What not to store in OneDrive Individual research (e.g., published articles or", "M365 AND THE RECORDS MANAGEMENT LIFECYCLE\n\nMS Teams) when they are ready for review and/or sharing. For more information about how to identify official university records, please see Transitory, Official and Personal Records: A Guide for SFU Employees . What to store in OneDrive What not to store in OneDrive Individual research (e.g., published articles or other information for a future project) Early drafts of documents not yet ready for review (e.g., working draft reports) Documents meant to be accessed by a team (e.g., project revisions or planning documents). Official records (e.g., finalized university records, such as policies and procedures) Personal information (e.g., holiday photographs, personal finances)", "Caution:\n\nPolicy development for all M365 products, including OneDrive is ongoing; and access to OneDrive post-employment is not guaranteed. Tips for organizing your OneDrive Schedule a re-occurring time to review and clean up your OneDrive. Ensure that you regularly transfer official university records from your OneDrive to your department\u2019s recordkeeping system. Follow a similar file naming convention in your OneDrive as used elsewhere by your department. For tips on file naming see Standard Naming Conventions for Electronic Records . Keep your folder structure simple, ideally no more than two levels of nesting folders. Use your department\u2019s file classification plan to name folders according to a predefined taxonomy. For tips on creating a file classification plan see Model File Classification Plan for University Records . Prior to leaving the university or transferring positions (e.g., moving from Department X to Department Y), transfer official university records to your department\u2019s repository and save any personal information about you as an employee (e.g., your resume) or your individual research to your personal storage space outside of the SFU environment (e.g., your personal OneDrive, iCloud, etc.). Tips for document sharing All documents stored in OneDrive remain linked to their original owner. If you leave SFU and your account is deactivated, the original documents will be difficult to recover if they have not already been stored elsewhere, regardless of whether they have been shared or not. You may share documents stored in OneDrive; however, be aware that anyone who is granted access to a document in OneDrive with editing privileges can share that file with others. If you anticipate a document needing to be accessed and/or shared by a large group of people, move it to an MS Teams site or other shared repository instead of keeping it in OneDrive. Please note that extensive sharing through OneDrive", "Caution:\n\nwith editing privileges can share that file with others. If you anticipate a document needing to be accessed and/or shared by a large group of people, move it to an MS Teams site or other shared repository instead of keeping it in OneDrive. Please note that extensive sharing through OneDrive will create a complicated network of permissions since unique permissions will be set for each individual document and/or folder that is shared. Finally, be aware, that documents shared in private chat in MS Teams will be stored in your OneDrive account. Other Resources See Microsoft OneDrive more information. Related Articles (1) Recommended Usage for File Storage and Collaboration Learn more about the differences between Microsoft Teams and OneDrive for file storage and collaboration. Related Services / Offerings (1) Microsoft OneDrive Microsoft OneDrive is a file hosting and synchronization service for individual use at the university.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management Tags Service-Catalogue ServiceHub-Services Services-Diagram", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis page is designed to recommend practices for multi-device registration with SFU MFA. Multi-device registration refers to registering more than one device for MFA with your SFU account, and all the devices registered will display the same six-digit MFA code, or TOTP (Time-based One-Time Password).", "DETAILS\n\nMulti-Device Registration is not intended to be used as backup devices. For optimal security, we recommend only registering one device with MFA per SFU computing account. We encourage all users to use the MFA emergency codes as their backup resource. To view your MFA emergency codes or generate new codes, sign into the SFU MFA Management App to retrieve your emergency codes before you come across a scenario where you may need them. What happens if I register multiple devices for MFA with my SFU account? Your account will be exposed to higher security risks than the accounts that are registered with just one device. Multi-device registration for MFA with your SFU account means that the same six-digit MFA code, or TOTP (Time-based One-Time Password) is shown across multiple devices. The more devices registered to your account, the more chances there are for one of those devices getting compromised (e.g. theft). Who should use multi-device registration? Who should not use multi-device registration? Individuals who are in a position that require multi-device registration can add additional devices on the SFU MFA Management App .", "Some examples where you may require multiple devices could be:\n\nEntering a place or area where you cannot continually bring in your personal belongings (i.e., sanitized or clean labs). Entering a place or area where you cannot continually take out personal belongings once you enter (i.e., biohazardous or containment labs). For instructions to add additional devices, see Add or Remove MFA Devices and Apps . Individuals who are in a position where one MFA device is sufficient for your work are recommended to not add additional MFA devices. Some examples where you should not", "use multiple devices for MFA could be:\n\nFor convenience reasons (i.e., remote work, multiple work stations). To have additional backup devices. We encourage all users to use the MFA emergency codes as their backup resource. Related Services / Offerings (1) Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) SFU\u2019s Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) refers to using two or more independent items to verify your identity, typically something you know (i.e., your SFU computing ID and password) and something you have (i.e., a time-based code).", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For TDX Admins Accessing TDX Community, TDX Solutions and TDX Learn How to Create TeamDynamix Community Account The TeamDynamix Community is an area for all TeamDynamix clients to connect and share ideas. It contains many videos, articles, event information, API documentation, and release notes. Following your registration, you\u2019ll be sent a confirmation email. Follow the instructions in this email to activate your Community account.", "Use the following link to register for TeamDynamix Community:\n\nhttps://community.teamdynamix.com/RegisterAccount.aspx How to Access TeamDynamix Solutions Portal https:// solutions.teamdynamix.com How to Access TeamDynamix Knowledge Base - Articles, Webinars, QAs https://learn.teamdynamix.com/TDClient/129/ITPortal/KB/", "Research Research-Specific Computing and Applications If you are a staff member, faculty, or lab administrator, you should already have been granted manager privileges to your lab\u2019s access control maillist.", "To add or remove maillist members:\n\nGo to the SFU Maillist Manager . In the \u201c Go to list \u201d text entry box, type (for example) ensc-superlab . Click [ Go ]. Click on the Maillist Member tab. Scroll down. In the \u201c Add new members \u201d text field, enter the computing IDs of the users you wish to add to your lab\u2019s access control list. Click the [ Add ] button. Scroll down again. Click [ Save Changes ] at the bottom of the page.", "Note:\n\nIt can take up to one hour for the changes to take effect across all SFU systems.", "Software and Application Distribution", "OVERVIEW\n\nAdobe Creative Cloud is a subscription-based service that provides access to a collection of Adobe software applications for graphic design, video editing, web development, photography, and more. This platform includes popular apps like Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro, After Effects and Acrobat Pro.", "NOTE:\n\nThe article below is meant for Students . Staff or Faculty looking for Adobe Acrobat Pro or Creative Cloud can learn more by following the indicated links.", "NOTE:\n\nNot all features are available in the Higher Education edition of Adobe Creative Cloud products. An SFU Adobe ID is required to use current versions of Adobe Creative Cloud products in SFU computer labs . To get started with Adobe Creative Cloud for Students at SFU, follow the steps below: Sign up for an SFU Adobe ID Set your SFU Adobe ID password Log into Adobe Creative Cloud Desktop Frequently Asked Questions", "1. REQUEST AN SFU ADOBE ID\n\nSFU Adobe ID is available to all current SFU faculty, staff and students. Visit the SFU Adobe ID sign-up page and complete the Consents module to sign up for an account.", "Note:\n\nSFU Adobe ID are created using yourSFUcomputingID @sfu.ca , not your alias firstname_lastname @sfu.ca .", "Note:\n\nIt may take up to 24 hours for your account to be ready.", "Note:\n\nAn SFU Adobe ID does not provision a personal license for Adobe Creative Cloud products. Faculty or staff seeking access to Adobe Creative Cloud titles should contact their IT representative for assistance or submit a ticket . Request SFU Adobe ID", "2. SET SFU ADOBE ID PASSWORD\n\n1. Go to the Adobe Account portal to set your password.", "VISIT ADOBE ACCOUNT PORTAL\n\n2. At the Adobe Account login screen, enter your SFU email address (i.e., yourSFUcomputingID @sfu.ca ). Click Continue. 3. Select Company or School Account. 4. Click Reset your password . Adobe sends a verification code to your SFU email address . 5. Enter the verification code you received. 6. Set your password.", "NOTE:\n\nAdobe ID accounts are managed by Adobe and not SFU. SFU strongly recommends against re-using your SFU password.", "3. LOG INTO ADOBE CREATIVE CLOUD DESKTOP\n\nAdobe Creative Cloud products are authorized by the Adobe Creative Cloud Desktop application. Unmanaged device users should install the Adobe Creative Cloud Desktop application. Managed device users can install Adobe Creative Cloud Desktop via the Managed Software Centre. 1. Launch Adobe Creative Cloud Desktop application. The application may open a web browser to complete the login process. 2. At the Adobe Account login screen, enter your SFU email address (i.e., yourSFUcomputingID @sfu.ca ). Click Continue 3. Select Company or School Account. 4. Enter your password and click Continue.", "4. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT ADOBE CREATIVE CLOUD FOR STUDENTS\n\nWho can use adobe creative cloud? Students with an SFU Adobe ID are eligible to access Adobe Creative Cloud products installed in select computer labs and some shared work spaces.", "CAN I INSTALL ADOBE CREATIVE CLOUD ON MY PERSONAL DEVICE?\n\nNo, our current educational license for students can only be used in the IT supported computer labs . how do i find help with my sfu adobe id? Adobe ID are managed by Adobe Inc. and not SFU. You can obtain support from Adobe as required . If you are unsure, please submit a service request via ServiceHub or contact your local IT representative for software inquiries/installations. are there alternatives to adobe creative cloud i can try? Yes, most computer labs include alternatives to Adobe Creative Cloud titles you can try.", "Due to the fact that some managed Macs lose connection with AD, it manifests as users not be able to print. To fix that, we have created app in \"Self service\" called \"Fix SFU Print\". This app will check if the machine is bound to AD, and if it is not it will rejoin AD and reinstall \"SFU Print\" queue.", "Note:\n\nIf you are at home, you need to have SFU VPN running. This is a self service and user can run it on their own, following next steps: 1. Press Command + Space key to activate \u201cSpotlight Search\u201d. 2. Type \u201cSelf Service\u201d and choose first entry.\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b 3. Choose \u201cFix SFU Print\u201d and click Fix button.\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b Printer access should be fixed now.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the feature differences between SFU Groups and SFU Maillist.", "CHANGED FEATURES\n\nThe following features will not be available in SFU Groups (when compared to SFU Maillist): SFU Groups Owner role Owner role has merged with manager role. This is to ensure that group ownership isn't tied to an individual and become stale. Deliver Mail to Members by Default Always on. Users can no longer turn off email delivery from Exchange Distribution Groups they belong in. Note : Managers won't receive emails if they are not a member of the group. Delivery Suspended No longer available. Users can no longer turn off email delivery from Exchange Distribution Groups they belong in. Welcome Message No longer available. Change Log Only available to IT admins. Delivery History No longer available. Sender Restriction (Allow List) Stays available, but emails sent to a sender restricted Distribution Groups have additional security requirements. With Exchange Distribution Groups, this will require any sender to authenticate to Exchange. This means that users will need to be signed into an SFU's Approved Email Application in order to send emails to an Exchange Distribution Group with Restricted Senders. If the sender has not authenticated to Exchange, they will receive a bounce-back message saying their email has not been delivered. In most cases, this applies to those you use IMAP/POP (except for Thunderbird with OAuth2), any unapproved email applications, and any unapproved email integrations with M365 . Migration Impact Note", ":\n\nAfter migrating these maillists to Exchange Distribution Groups, this setting will be turned off by default. If you wish to continue having restricted senders on your Distribution Group, you will need to re-enable this setting. Only course/plan groups will have their Restricted Sender settings migrated. Maillist Nesting Since the permissions model is different in SFU Groups, all owners of groups that contain a nested group will require Group Reader Permissions to that nested group. Migration Impact Note", ":\n\nSince the permissions model is different in SFU Groups, if you are an owner of a maillist with a nested maillist, you will now require Reader or Manager Permissions to that nested maillist when maillists are migrated over as Exchange Distribution Groups.", "Example:\n\ndept-managers-all unit-a-managers (nested maillist) unit-b-managers (nested maillist) jane_doe@sfu.ca (owner) john_doe@sfu.ca (member) In this example, Jane Doe is an owner of dept -managers-all . Jane Doe now requires Reader or Manager permissions for unit-a-managers and unit-b-managers in SFU Groups. My nested maillist are within my department If you also happen to be the owner of that nested maillist, you don't need to take additional action. If the nested maillist is not owned or managed by you, you should get manager role for that maillist prior to migration for a seamless transition to SFU Groups. Be sure to check on the Active Maillist Migration List to see if you have any maillists that have \"nested non-owned lists\". Contact the maillist owners of those \"nested non-owned lists\" for manager role to those nested maillists. My nested maillist are cross-department If the nested maillist is owned by someone from another department, you should get manager role for that maillist prior to migration for a seamless transition to SFU Groups. Be sure to check on the Active Maillist Migration List to see if you have any maillists that have \"nested non-owned lists\". Contact the maillist owners of those \"nested non-owned lists\" for manager role to those nested maillists. Nested maillist from another department where they haven't been migrated yet: Your nested maillist will be automatically removed from the membership list. Once removed from the membership list, you will need to wait until the other department has also migrated. If you followed the steps above prior to migration, you should have manager role to the remove nested maillist. Simply re-add the nested maillist on SFU Groups.", "Nested maillist from another department where they already migrated:\n\nIf you followed the steps above prior to migration, you should have the correct privileges to the nested maillist on SFU Groups. You don't need to take additional action. Self-subscribe or unsubscribe No longer available. Use SimpleList if you require this feature. Delays If you are making changes to Exchange Distribution Groups or security groups linked to a Microsoft service (e.g., Teams, SharePoint), you will need to wait an additional 30 minutes for your changes to fully sync to Microsoft servers.", "ADDED FEATURES\n\nThe following features will be new to SFU Groups (on Grouper): SFU Groups Composite Groups (dynamically generated groups) Only available to IT admins Creating Permissions and Attributes Only available to IT admins Inherited Permissions and Attributes Only available to IT admins Role Permissions and Privileges Automation Only available to IT admins Audit Logs Only available to IT admins Group Types and Folders Only available to IT admins Attestation and Group Validation Only available to IT admins * IT admins refers to those who have access to the full Grouper interface, which may include members of the local IT administrators and other technical group managers.", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Articles (1) Service Migrations to SFU Groups (Grouper) SFU Maillist to SFU Groups migration tracking. Related Services / Offerings (2) Email Distribution Lists Tools that provides the ability to send email messages to multiple email addresses using a list or a group. Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "How-To Guides \u2190 Back to SFU Mail Home Page We're Upgrading SFU Mail FAQs and Common Issues New Changes to SFU Mail How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article lists the how-to guides, training and resources on SFU Mail.", "LIST OF HOW-TO GUIDES\n\nSelect any of the following headers to expand the list of How-to Guides: Sign in and Setup Windows Sign into SFU Mail on Web Browser (Outlook on the Web) Sign into SFU Mail on Desktop (Outlook for Windows and Mac) Mac Sign into SFU Mail on Web Browser (Outlook on the Web) Sign into SFU Mail on Desktop (Outlook for Windows and Mac) Sign Into Apple Mail For Mac Android Sign into SFU Mail on Web Browser (Outlook on the Web) Sign into SFU Mail on Mobile (Outlook for iOS and Android) Sign into Gmail for Android Sign into Samsung Mail For Android iOS Sign into SFU Mail on Web Browser (Outlook on the Web) Sign into SFU Mail on Mobile (Outlook for iOS and Android) Sign into Apple Mail For iOS", "IMAP &\n\nThunderbird IMAP, SMTP and POP Setup Sign Into Mozilla Thunderbird For PC Setting up Thunderbird with TbSync Other Sign into SFU Mail with Sponsored Accounts List of Approved Mail Applications (coming soon) Note : SFU recommends using Outlook to ensure a seamless experience with the rest of the SFU Microsoft 365 environment. Other applications are available to your preferences with limited technical support. Basic Training videos Microsoft Training Center Outlook on Web Browser (Video) Outlook for iOS and Android (Video) Outlook for Windows (Video) Outlook for Mac (Video) Microsoft Outlook Training Catalog Mail Mail Basics Getting started with Outlook on the Web / Video Guides Format Email Messages Composing and Sending Emails -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nForwarding an Email -", "OWA\n\nGlobal Address List - OWA /", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nVoice and Dictation Organizing and Customization Organizing Emails -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nMessage List Options -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nReading Pane Options -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nView Message Headers -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSetting up Signatures -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSetting Up Email Templates -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSetting up read receipts Flagging and priority Focused Inbox Spam and Junk Management Reporting Phishing -", "OWA\n\nTime and Date Options -", "OWA\n\nAutomation Set up Out of Office Messages / automatic replies -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nScheduling Email delivery / Send Later -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSetting up Rules* -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\n* Note : Setting up Rules to auto-forward or redirect your messages to an external (non-SFU) email accounts may no longer work due to Changes on Email Forwarding Practices . Calendar Calendar Basics Accessing and navigating the calendar Creating Events/Appointments -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nUsing the Scheduling Assistant Modifying Appointments -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nCreating a New Calendar -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nResponding to Meeting Invitations Other Features Event scheduling polling Setting up work hours -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSetting up alerts -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nPrint Calendar Entries -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC / MAC\n\nPublishing a calendar -", "OWA\n\nSetting up rules for calendar notifications Creating a calendar note Subscribing to an external calendar -", "OWA\n\nLocation/Resource Accounts Using the overlay view People and Tasks People Accessing and navigating Autocomplete Contacts Management Contact lists and contact groups -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nTasks Accessing and navigating tasks Creating and managing a task -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\nConflict resolution Setting Reminders for tasks Creating a task list Creating a task from an email -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\nSearching, Filtering and Categories Search and filter email Searching mail -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSearching calendar -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\nSearching People -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nAdvanced query search -", "OWA\n\nUsing Categories -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\nSharing and Delegation Delegation (send on behalf of) -", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSharing Mail Folders -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSharing Calendars -", "OWA\n\n/", "PC\n\n/", "MAC\n\nSharing tasks Profile and Settings Accessing and navigating profile Display Name and Sender address Job Title and Department Affiliation Storage space and quota Backups Time Zone and Language -", "LEAVING SFU, ALUMNI & STAFF\n\nPreserving Email Content After Leaving SFU Have a question or encountering an issue? Visit out SFU Mail - FAQ and Common Issues for more information. Looking for support? Send a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. Related Services / Offerings (1) SFU mail is the emailing system at SFU for all SFU members.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Teams What is a Data Loss Prevention Policy (DLP)? A data loss prevention (DLP) policy is a security boundary for data. In the context of the Microsoft Power Platform, a DLP policy is a set of technical guidelines for how data can flow between different apps via connectors. What are connectors? Connectors are no-code/low-code components that provide a way for the Microsoft Power Platform to communicate with other apps and services. When you set up a connector in a Power Automate workflow (also called \"flows\") or a Power Automate app, you are authorizing one service to talk to another. For example, you could have an automated flow that starts an approval process when a file is uploaded to SharePoint by using the SharePoint Online and MS Approvals connectors. In this case, each connector would be authorized to broker (or \"talk\") to each service so the flow can act on your behalf. Connectors are an empowering feature to enable personal productivity within Microsoft 365. If you are just getting started with connectors and want to learn more, explore the Get Started with Power Automate online resources from Microsoft. Why has SFU restricted some connectors? Access to data within the SFU community is diverse. In combination with our community's data responsibility guidelines , a baseline Data Loss Prevention (DLP) policy is an automatic way of helping our community safely navigate connections between data using vetted (reviewed and approved) connectors, while avoiding the complications and risks that can lead to data abuse. In general, the baseline DLP policy for the Microsoft Power Platform will restrict any connector that: Hasn't undergone a privacy and security review (this includes new connectors). Requires a premium license to use.", "Hardware Lifecycle Services Asset Management", "OVERVIEW\n\nAs technology evolves, universities are constantly upgrading their equipment, resulting in the need to securely decommission and dispose of data-bearing devices. This process ensures the protection of sensitive information and mitigates the risk of data breaches. is a comprehensive program implemented by SFU to ensure the secure and environmentally responsible disposal of IT assets. By adhering to Canadian Centre for Cyber Security (CCCS) and Computer Security Research Center (CSRC) National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines, the university aims to protect sensitive data and contribute to ecological sustainability. All university-funded devices are required to undergo the asset recycling and secure data disposal process, ensuring proper erasure of sensitive information. The procedures for managed and un-managed devices vary and are outlined below. Managed Devices Un-managed Devices Managed Devices Managed devices, which are typically issued and controlled by the university's IT department, follow a specific process for secure decommissioning and disposal. Inform your local IT contact about the device you wish to dispose of. They will guide you through the appropriate decommissioning procedures.", "LAN-ADMIN LOGIN\n\nUn-managed Devices Un-managed devices, including personally owned computers or mobile devices (smartphones, tablets, etc.), are not under the direct control of the university's IT department. These devices require user participation for secure decommissioning and disposal and require special attention due to their portability and the sensitive nature of the data they may contain. Data Backup: Begin by backing up all important data from the mobile device. This step is crucial as it allows you to retain any personal or important information before proceeding with decommissioning. Remove Locks and Passcodes: Disable any locks, passcodes, or biometric authentication features on the mobile device. This is important to grant the IT team access to the device for processing and erasure. Inform your IT Team: Contact your local IT representative and they will provide instructions and guidance for further steps. SIM Card and Memory Card Removal: Don't forget to remove the SIM card and any external memory cards from the mobile device. These items may contain personal information and should be disposed of separately or securely erased before being used elsewhere. Submit a Facilities Service Request or email your local Facilities team. Facilities Requests Burnaby", "To recycle your electronics at the Burnaby campus:\n\nSubmit a Facilities Service Request . Select \"Routine Surplus Furniture and Equipment\". Specify \"Electronic Equipment\" in the request section, including the number of items and/or totes. Surrey To recycle your electronics at the Surrey campus, contact scfacil@sfu.ca . Vancouver To recycle your electronics at the Vancouver campus, contact fsvhelp@sfu.ca . Resources Sanitization and disposal of electronic devices Guidelines for Media Sanitization", "Overview This article describes how to enable the calendar app in Teams to access your SFU Mail calendar. Details Starting July 24, 2023, your SFU Mail calendar will be connected to your Teams calendar. When you schedule a meeting in SFU Mail, it'll show up in Teams, and vice versa. You'll also be able to schedule appointments, respond to invitations, and join meetings directly from your Teams app. To get started: Select ... from the leftmost menu on your Teams app. Select Calendar from the list of apps available, or search for it and add it. Right-click the Calendar app and select Pin so that the app stays pinned on the left menu. Select the Calendar app and your SFU calendar will appear. From here, you can view and modify upcoming meetings, schedule new ones, or join an ongoing meeting directly.", "Note:\n\nThe Scheduling Assistant in the Teams Calendar will not display a recipient's free/busy availability correctly if there are no events scheduled on their calendar. For more information, see section Known Issues and Limitations . Meetings and Calendar View In the top right corner, you have options to join a meeting with an ID number, create an instant meeting, and schedule a new meeting. You also can switch the calendar to day, work week, or week view from underneath the New meeting button. Today's Date and Date Picker In the top left corner, you can jump directly to today's date and access the date picker to more easily jump to a particular day and month. Known Issues and Limitations As we work to bring Exchange Online to SFU, some features may not work as expected until the full migration. The Scheduling Assistant in the Teams Calendar will not display a recipient's free/busy availability correctly if there are no events scheduled on their calendar. To use the Scheduling Assistant in its full capacity, we recommend using the Outlook desktop app or SFU Mail on the web . By design, your Teams Calendar will only display your main SFU calendar. To access your other calendars and the entire suite of calendaring features available from Microsoft, we recommend using the Outlook desktop apps or SFU Mail on the web . Resources See all your meetings in Microsoft Teams Schedule a meeting in Microsoft Teams Manage your calendar in Microsoft Teams Overview This article describes how to enable the calendar app in Teams to access your SFU Mail calendar.", "Overview This article describes how to add the channel calendar app to your Microsoft Teams. A channel calendar is a shared calendar available to channel members. Details Adding a channel calendar", "To add a shared calendar to the channel:\n\nSelect Add a tab at the top of the channel Select Channel calendar from the list of apps available, or search for it from the search bar at the top. Give the calendar a name and select Add . By default, Teams will post to the channel about this tab unless specified otherwise. Scheduling, modifying, and canceling a meeting Scheduling To schedule a meeting, left-click the time slot on the calendar in which you'd like to create it. The meeting details window will appear where you can enter the meeting title, attendees, duration, and other details. When you're finished entering the meeting details, select Send to schedule the meeting. For more meeting options for participants, select Options on the right hand side and then More Options . When you're finished, select Save to keep the changes. For a description of what each setting does, please see participant settings in Microsoft Teams meetings . Modifying or Cancelling To modify or cancel a meeting, right-click the meeting and select Edit or Cancel . Rename or remove the channel calendar To rename or remove the channel calendar, right-click the channel calendar tab and select the rename or remove option. Limitations Channel events can only be scheduled and viewed from the Teams app. Channel calendars are not available in private channels. Only one calendar is available per a channel. Guests can't view the calendar and must be invited directly. Overview This article describes how to add the channel calendar app to your Microsoft Teams. A channel calendar is a shared calendar available to channel members.", "Overview This article explains how to configure your meetings in the Teams calendar with additional participant settings such as co-organizers, breakout rooms, and Q&A. Details Additional meeting options become available when editing an existing meeting with at least one attendee. In your Teams calendar, schedule a meeting with at least one attendee. Select and choose to edit the meeting in your Teams calendar. New tabs, such as Attendance, Meeting Whiteboard, Breakout Rooms, and Q&A will appear at the top. You have the option of adding other apps by selecting Add a tab . To access more meeting options and enable Q&A, select \"...\" and then Meeting options . You'll be brought to your meeting's options page on your web browser after signing in. For a description of each setting and what it does, please see Participant Settings In Microsoft Teams Meetings . Overview This article explains how to configure your meetings in the Teams calendar with additional participant settings such as co-organizers, breakout rooms, and Q&A.", "Overview This article explains how to set up your Teams meetings with registration. In meetings with registration, the organizer and presenters have more control than in a regular meeting. By default, attendees have to be let in from the lobby and cannot share content. Details", "To schedule a meeting with registration:\n\nIn the Teams calendar, select New meeting . On the New meeting page, select Require registration and then either For people in your org or For everyone (for a meeting open to the public). On the New meeting page, enter a title for the meeting, date, start and end times, and a description. Please note that the information on this page is visible to presenters only . If you wish, you can set an earlier start time for presenters on this form, and a later start time for attendees on the registration form. The next steps in setting up your meeting with registration include adding presenters, customizing the registration form, adding a custom banner image, sending the invite, and publicizing the meeting. For a step-by-step walk through, please see Microsoft's schedule a meeting with registration in Microsoft Teams . Limitations Channel meetings and recurring meetings don\u2019t currently support attendee registration. Resources Schedule a meeting with registration in Microsoft Teams Overview This article explains how to set up your Teams meetings with registration. In meetings with registration, the organizer and presenters have more control than in a regular meeting. By default, attendees have to be let in from the lobby and cannot share content.", "\u2190 Back to SFU Mail Home Page FAQs and Common Issues New Changes to SFU Mail How-To Guides Overview Aligned with the university\u2019s What\u2019s Next Objective: Transform the SFU experience and SFU's digital transformation , SFU is upgrading to Exchange Online, a new cloud-based email system. This transition is part of SFU's commitment to enhancing IT security, improving user experience, and enabling access to Microsoft\u2019s suite of products like OneDrive, Teams and SharePoint. Between 2023 and 2025, all SFU mailboxes will be upgrading to Exchange Online. What I need to Know Note : It is important to follow the actions below to ensure uninterrupted access to your SFU email.", "TIMELINE\n\nBetween 2023 and 2025, all SFU mailbox account will be upgraded to Exchange Online. You will be notified through email at least two weeks prior to your account being scheduled to upgrade. Please note that upgrade batches are not \"by department\" , rather, are determined if a user has a dependency with another user (i.e., users who have the same shared calendar).", "Completed:\n\nUndergraduate student accounts have finished transitioning by April 2024. FIC student accounts have finished transitioning by April 2024. Graduate Students, Staff, Faculty, Role/Sponsored Accounts have finished transitioning by August 2024.", "In progress:\n\nRetirees will transition between October 2024 and December 2024. Note: Dates are tentative and subject to change.", "ACTIONS BEFORE UPGRADE\n\nTo ensure uninterrupted access to SFU Mail, take the following actions before", "your scheduled upgrade:\n\nUsing SFU Mail via a Web Browser New URL : After the upgrade, access SFU Mail on any device and web browser using the weblink, https://outlook.office.com . Bookmark or save the new link, as the current weblink ( https://mail.sfu.ca ) will become outdated. New Sign-In Format : Your email sign-in format will be \"YourComputingID@sfu.ca\" on the Microsoft sign-in page when you are upgraded. Using SFU Mail via Email Applications (i.e., Outlook Desktop, Apple Mail) Temporary Interruption : Post upgrade, SFU Mail may disconnect from desktop and mobile email applications. To reconnect, remove and re-add your SFU account. Alternatively, use https://outlook.office.com for continued access on any browser. Switch to Approved Email Apps : Only approved email apps can connect to SFU Mail. Check if you're using an approved app and take the required action, if necessary. For a list of approved apps, see: New Changes to SFU Mail - New Requirements . IMAP/POP Users : Consider backing up your emails. Post upgrade, you will need to modify your account configuration which can result in lost emails in the process. See IMAP Setup for details. Thunderbird Users : Client-sided data, such as email rules, won't be migrated along with your account. You may need to re-add any client-sided data post-upgrade. Shared Items (i.e., Shared Calendars, Mailbox Permissions, Shared Folders, Delegate Access) Temporary Interruption : Post upgrade, shared items may become temporarily unavailable. This typically includes shared calendars such as departmental or vacation calendars, or shared folders. After the upgrade, you may need to remove existing shares and owners of shared items to re-share or re-instate your shared items to continue their use. If the owner or the delegate/share recipient are upgraded at a different date, shared features will be limited until both users are upgraded. See our FAQs and Common Issues", "for details or visit the how-to guide on:\n\nRe-sharing a Shared Calendar Re-add a Shared Mail Folder or Mailbox Using Third-Party Apps Approved Third-Party Apps Only : Post upgrade, only SFU-approved third-party apps will connect to SFU Mail. Learn more . Using Shared Sponsored Accounts (or Role Accounts) New Sign-In Format : Your email sign-in format will be \"YourSponsoredAccount@sfu.ca\" on the Microsoft sign-in page when you are upgraded, including when you are using Delegated Login. See Sponsored Account Sign-in Instructions . Tips Your email signature on the browser version of SFU Mail will be lost during the upgrade. You can add it back once the upgrade is complete. Bookmark this webpage for easy access to troubleshooting resources. Have questions on potential impacts? Visit our SFU Mail Migration FAQs and Common Issues .", "ACTIONS AFTER UPGRADE\n\nUsing SFU Mail via Web Browser New URL : You can access SFU Mail on any device and web browser using the weblink, https://outlook.office.com . Update any bookmarks to point to the new SFU Mail Outlook weblink. New Sign-In Format : Sign-in with \"YourComputingID@sfu.ca\" on the Microsoft sign-in page . New Features and Environment : Explore new features and check if you have everything. You may need to re-add your email signatures . Using SFU Mail via Email Applications (i.e., Outlook Desktop, Apple Mail) Temporary Interruption : Check if your desktop and mobile email applications can send and receive new emails from SFU Mail. If not, remove and re-add your SFU account. Alternatively, use https://outlook.office.com for continued access via any browser. Use Approved Apps : Only approved email apps can connect to SFU Mail. For a list of approved apps, see: New Changes to SFU Mail - New Requirements . Consider switching to Outlook : Outlook for Desktop and Mobile are fully supported by the university. We encourage you to use Outlook as it offers the best experience with SFU Mail. IMAP/POP Users : Consider backing up your emails. Post upgrade, you will need to modify your account configuration which can result in lost emails in the process. See IMAP Setup for details. Thunderbird Users : Client-sided data, such as email rules, won't be migrated along with your account. You may need to re-add any client-sided data post-upgrade. Shared Items (i.e., Shared Calendars, Mailbox Permissions, Shared Folders, Delegate Access) Temporary Interruption : Post upgrade, shared items may become temporarily unavailable. This typically includes shared calendars such as departmental or vacation calendars, or shared folders. After the upgrade, you may need to remove existing shares and owners of shared items to re-share or re-instate your shared items to continue their use.", "ACTIONS AFTER UPGRADE\n\nInterruption : Post upgrade, shared items may become temporarily unavailable. This typically includes shared calendars such as departmental or vacation calendars, or shared folders. After the upgrade, you may need to remove existing shares and owners of shared items to re-share or re-instate your shared items to continue their use. If the owner or the delegate/share recipient are upgraded at a different date, shared features will be limited until both users are upgraded. See our FAQs and Common Issues", "for details or visit the how-to guide on:\n\nRe-sharing a Shared Calendar Re-add a Shared Mail Folder or Mailbox Using Third-Party Apps Approved Third-Party Apps Only : Post upgrade, only SFU-approved third-party apps will connect to SFU Mail. Learn more . Using Shared Sponsored Accounts (or Role Accounts) New Sign-In Format : Your email sign-in format will be \"YourSponsoredAccount@sfu.ca\" on the Microsoft sign-in page when you are upgraded, including when you are using Delegated Login. See Sponsored Account Sign-in Instructions . Tips Check your Junk Folder : Check your Junk folder more frequently. The increased spam filtering may send some legitimate emails to your Junk folder. SFU Mailbox Storag e: In the new Exchange Online, your mailbox size won't automatically increase in capacity. Make sure to delete unneeded emails regularly and keep an eye on your storage usage. You will receive a notification if you're close to reaching your limit . Encountering issues? Visit our SFU Mail Migration FAQs and Common Issues . New Changes to SFU Mail", "For a quick summary of the changes:\n\nNew Features SFU Mail now has the latest Outlook email features SFU Mail on Browser will communicate with other Microsoft 365 apps. Outlook on Desktop will have more integration with Microsoft 365 suite. Microsoft Teams and other Microsoft 365 Apps (e.g., Bookings, Planner) will now communicate with SFU Mail. New Requirements to connecting to SFU Mail By integrating SFU Mail with the Microsft 365 suite, new security requirements ensure better data security for the SFU community and compliance with provincial privacy regulations. Only approved third-party email applications and tools can connect to SFU Mail. For details, see our External Tools/Apps Changes and FAQs . Connecting through IMAP/POP configurations now require OAuth2 authentication. Service Changes and Limits Mailbox storage limits are determined by your assigned Microsoft licensing. All current SFU staff and faculty have up to 100 GB of mailbox storage. With modern accident prevention features available to SFU Mail, email backup are not provided by SFU/Microsoft to ensure efficient use of resources. SFU Mail is secured by Microsoft enterprise-level security. Compatibility Older mobile devices may not be able to connect to SFU Mail through email apps. For continued access, you can always access SFU Mail through the new weblink, https://outlook.office.com on any browser. Older browsers will continue to work on SFU Mail. For more information on changes and new features, see New Change to SFU Mail . How do I know if I have upgraded to Exchange Online? There will be two major changes once your account is upgraded to Exchange Online: You will be asked to log into Microsoft when signing into SFU Mail . Your sign in email will be \u201cYourComputingID@sfu.ca\u201d. The user interface will be modernized when accessing SFU Mail on browser. Looking for details on SFU Mail upgrade changes and new features? See New Change to", "For a quick summary of the changes:\n\nExchange Online: You will be asked to log into Microsoft when signing into SFU Mail . Your sign in email will be \u201cYourComputingID@sfu.ca\u201d. The user interface will be modernized when accessing SFU Mail on browser. Looking for details on SFU Mail upgrade changes and new features? See New Change to SFU Mail . Looking for further support? Send a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. Related Services / Offerings (2) SFU mail is the emailing system at SFU for all SFU members. SFU Mail - Migration Issues & Support", "Overview This article explains how to schedule your Teams meeting with the Outlook desktop app for Windows and Mac and access additional participant meeting options. This feature is only available to individuals with existing Teams access (staff, faculty, and graduate students). Details Outlook Desktop on Windows Open Outlook and switch to the Calendar view. Select New Teams Meeting . You can also schedule a new meeting and then select Teams Meeting in the meeting details window. A Teams meeting ID, password, and link will be inserted into the body of your message. If you'd like to configure additional participant options, select Meeting Options from the top and the meeting options window will appear. For a description of each setting, see participant settings in Microsoft Teams meetings . Add your invitees and enter your meeting subject, location (if applicable), start time, and end time. Select Send . To remove Teams from a meeting, select Don't Host Online before you send the invitation. If you've already sent the invitation, you'll need to edit the meeting details and manually remove the Teams meeting information from the body of the message, then send the updated invitation. Outlook Desktop on Mac Open Outlook and switch to the Calendar view. Schedule a new meeting and then select Teams Meeting in the meeting details window. A Teams meeting ID, password, and link will be inserted into the body of your message. If you'd like to configure additional participant options, select the meeting options link at the bottom of your Teams meeting details in the body of your message. Your browser window will open and you may be prompted to sign in. For a description of each setting, see participant settings in Microsoft Teams meetings . Add your invitees and enter your meeting subject, location (if applicable), start", "of your Teams meeting details in the body of your message. Your browser window will open and you may be prompted to sign in. For a description of each setting, see participant settings in Microsoft Teams meetings . Add your invitees and enter your meeting subject, location (if applicable), start time, and end time. Select Send . To remove Teams from a meeting, select Teams Meeting before you send the invitation. If you've already sent the invitation, you'll need to edit the meeting details and manually remove the Teams meeting information from the body of the message, then send the updated invitation. Overview This article explains how to schedule your Teams meeting with the Outlook desktop app for Windows and Mac and access additional participant meeting options. This feature is only available to individuals with existing Teams access (staff, faculty, and graduate students).", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to add your SFU Mail account to Apple Mail for Mac. Add Another Account to Apple Mail", "Note:\n\nAfter being migrated to the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online , your existing SFU account on Apple Mail won't be able to send or retrieve new emails. To re-connect your account, see After Migration - Connect your SFU Account to Apple Mail for Mac .", "To sign into SFU Mail on Apple Mail for Mac:\n\nLaunch Apple Mail. Select Microsoft Exchange , then Continue . Note: If you're not prompted to connect, see Add Another Account to Apple Mail below. Enter a name for your inbox and your SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca. Then, select . When you're asked to sign into Microsoft Exchange, select . Enter your SFU Computing ID and password , then select . If you are enrolled in MFA, you'll be asked to enter your MFA code. Select the apps you'd like to sync with your SFU Mail account. Then, select Done. Note : Enabling Contacts will integrate your SFU Mail account contacts with your device's contacts. Congratulations! You've sign into SFU Mail on Apple Mail for your Mac. Add Another Account to Apple Mail", "To add another account to Apple Mail:\n\nOn Apple Mail, select Mail > Add Accounts . On the left sidebar, select Internet Accounts . Then, select Add Account. Follow the steps as shown on your desktop. If you would like a guide, start at Step 2 from the guide above. For a list of available guides and documentation, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides .", "Overview This article describes how to re-connect your account to Apple Mail for Mac. After being migrated to the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online , your existing SFU account on Apple Mail won't be able to send or retrieve new emails. To re-connect your account, you'll be required to: Remove your existing SFU account from Apple Mail (covered in this article) Re-add your SFU account to Apple Mail For individuals who are using SFU Mail with Exchange Online and are setting up Apple Mail for Mac for the first time, please see Sign into Apple Mail for Mac . Note for IMAP/POP Users : Before any re-configuring on an email account that has previously been set up with IMAP/POP, we strongly recommend backing up your emails to restore any lost emails resulting from account modifications. These may vary depending on your application settings, however, the emails can can be potentially lost are: locally saved emails, emails/folders not or haven't synced to servers, and any other client-sided (locally stored) data . IT Services has no way to restore any of these messages since they are not stored on our servers. To reconnect IMAP/POP accounts after upgrading to Exchange Online , update your server configurations shown on IMAP Setup . Details", "To removing your SFU account from Apple Mail:\n\nCheck which protocol was used for the previous account setup Remove the account from Apple Mail Re-add your SFU Mail account Check which protocol was used for the previous account setup Open Apple Mail. From the menu bar, select Mail > Settings... > Accounts . Your SFU account will specify that it is set up with Exchange, IMAP, or POP. What's the difference between Exchange, IMAP, and POP? Exchange will sync your messages, contacts, calendars, reminders, and notes. Your messages and other content remain on the server if the account is removed from Apple Mail. This is the recommended way to set up your SFU Mail account.", "IMAP\n\nwill sync your messages and notes. Your messages and other content remain on the server if the account is removed from Apple Mail.", "POP\n\nwill download your messages to your Apple Mail client and remove a copy from the server unless specified otherwise. Setting up your account with POP requires special permission from an IT admin and accounts for less than 1% of accounts in SFU. Remove the account from Apple Mail Exchange and IMAP configurations If your account was set up with Exchange or IMAP, select the account, then click the Remove button. If the account is used by other apps on your Mac, you\u2019ll be asked to remove the account in Internet Accounts settings. Click Delete Account... to remove the account data from your Mac. Your messages, contacts, calendars, and other account data are NOT deleted and remain on the mail server. POP configurations If your account was set up with POP, move or copy them to a mailbox stored on your Mac (the mailbox appears in the On My Mac section in the Mail sidebar ) before you remove the account in Mail. Re-add your SFU Mail account You're now ready to add your SFU Mail account. Outlook for Mac is the recommended way to access your SFU inbox, contacts, and calendar. However, if you'd like to continue using Apple Mail, see Sign into Apple Mail for Mac . Overview This article describes how to re-connect your account to Apple Mail for Mac. After being migrated to the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online , your existing SFU account on Apple Mail won't be able to send or retrieve new emails. To re-connect your account, you'll be required to: SFU Mail with Exchange Online Remove your existing SFU account from Apple Mail (covered in this article) Re-add your SFU account to Apple Mail Remove your existing SFU account from Apple Mail (covered in this article) Re-add your SFU account to Apple", "POP\n\nTo re-connect your account, you'll be required to: SFU Mail with Exchange Online Remove your existing SFU account from Apple Mail (covered in this article) Re-add your SFU account to Apple Mail Remove your existing SFU account from Apple Mail (covered in this article) Re-add your SFU account to Apple Mail Re-add your SFU account to Apple Mail For individuals who are using SFU Mail with Exchange Online and are setting up Apple Mail for Mac for the first time, please see Sign into Apple Mail for Mac . Sign into Apple Mail for Mac Note for IMAP/POP Users : Before any re-configuring on an email account that has previously been set up with IMAP/POP, we strongly recommend backing up your emails to restore any lost emails resulting from account modifications. These may vary depending on your application settings, however, the emails can can be potentially lost are: locally saved emails, emails/folders not or haven't synced to servers, and any other client-sided (locally stored) data . IT Services has no way to restore any of these messages since they are not stored on our servers. To reconnect IMAP/POP accounts after upgrading to Exchange Online , update your server configurations shown on IMAP Setup . Note for IMAP/POP Users : Before any re-configuring on an email account that has previously been set up with IMAP/POP, we strongly recommend backing up your emails to restore any lost emails resulting from account modifications. Note for IMAP/POP Users re-configuring backing up your emails These may vary depending on your application settings, however, the emails can can be potentially lost are: locally saved emails, emails/folders not or haven't synced to servers, and any other client-sided (locally stored) data . IT Services has no way to restore any of these messages since they are not stored", "POP\n\nmay vary depending on your application settings, however, the emails can can be potentially lost are: locally saved emails, emails/folders not or haven't synced to servers, and any other client-sided (locally stored) data . IT Services has no way to restore any of these messages since they are not stored on our servers. locally saved emails, emails/folders not or haven't synced to servers, and any other client-sided (locally stored) data To reconnect IMAP/POP accounts after upgrading to Exchange Online , update your server configurations shown on IMAP Setup . upgrading to Exchange Online IMAP Setup", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to sign into SFU Mail on Apple Mail for iOS. Configure \"Mail Days to Sync\"", "Note:\n\nAfter being migrated to the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online , your existing SFU account on Apple Mail won't be able to send or retrieve new emails. To re-connect your account, you'll need to remove the account from your iPhone", "before re-adding it:\n\nOpen Settings > Mail > Accounts Tap the email account you want to remove from your iPhone, then tap Sign Out or Delete Account Follow the steps below to re-add your SFU mail account", "To sign into SFU Mail on Apple Mail for iOS:\n\nOpen the Settings app. Select Apps > Mail . Note : For older iOS versions, you may need to select Accounts & Passwords . Select Mail Accounts > Add Account > Microsoft Exchange . Enter your SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca. You may add an optional description to help you remember. Select Next > > Continue. Note : For information about the Exchange device administrator prompt, visit our SFU Mail Technical FAQs . Enter your SFU Computing ID and password , then select . If you are enrolled in MFA, you may be asked to enter your MFA code . Then, select Continue . Select which apps you'd like to sync with your SFU Mail account. Then, select Save to complete the setup. Note : Enabling Contacts will integrate your SFU Mail account contacts with your device's contacts. Congratulations! You've sign into SFU Mail on Apple Mail for your iOS device. Configure \"Mail Days to Sync\" By default, Apple Mail will only retrieve and store emails from the last month onwards. To change this behaviour: In Accounts , select your SFU account. It may be called Exchange depending on the description you set. Select Mail Days to Sync . 1 Month is selected by default. To retrieve all emails, select No Limit . Apple Mail will now be retrieved according to the specified setting. For a list of available guides and documentation, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides .", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to add your SFU Mail account to Mozilla Thunderbird (Windows, macOS, Linux). Already Added Your SFU Mail Account before Exchange Online? If you added your SFU Mail account to Mozilla Thunderbird and got migrated to Exchange Online, you only need to update IMAP server settings to continue use. After updating IMAP settings, you will be prompted to enter your password and restart the application to apply the changes.", "To set up your SFU Mail account on Mozilla Thunderbird:\n\nAdd an existing mail account by selecting File > New > Existing Mail Account... or by selecting Email", "(indicated by the arrow in the image below):\n\nEnter your name and your SFU email address. Do not enter your password . Select Configure manually .", "Configure IMAP with the following settings:\n\nIncoming Server (IMAP) Field Setting Protocol", "IMAP\n\nHostname outlook.office365.com Port 993 Connection security", "SSL/TTS\n\nAuthentication method OAuth2 Username SFUComputingID@sfu.ca Outgoing Server (SMTP) Field Setting Hostname smtp.office365.com Port 587 Connection security", "STARTTLS\n\nAuthentication method OAuth2 Username SFUComputingID@sfu.ca Not working? If these IMAP settings don't work, your SFU account may still be on Exchange On-Premises and will need to use older IMAP settings. Visit the older IMAP Setup page for details. Select Done . A window will appear and prompt you to enter your SFU credentials. Sign in with your SFU account to continue. Select Finish to complete the set up. Show only subscribed folders By default, Thunderbird will only display mailbox folders that you've subscribed to. To see all folders in your mailbox: Open Account Settings (right click your account and select Settings from the menu or Settings > Account Settings ) Select Server Settings Select Advanced Uncheck Show only subscribed folders Congratulations! You're now ready to use Mozilla Thunderbird with your SFU Mail account. For other user guides and documentation, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides .", "Overview This article describes how to sign into SFU Mail on the Samsung Mail app for Android devices. Details", "To set up your SFU Mail account on Samsung Mail:\n\nOpen Samsung Mail. If you're prompted to choose a provider to set up your email, select Office365 . If you've previously set up an account on the app, select > Settings (gear icon) > Add account . Otherwise, skip this step. You'll be asked to sign in using Microsoft. Enter your SFU Email as SFUComputingID@sfu.ca. Then select Next . Enter your SFU Computing ID and password , then select Sign In. If you are enrolled in MFA, you may be asked to enter your MFA code You can configure additional settings such as the email sync period and which items to sync. Select Done to save your settings. Enter an account name and select Done to confirm. You'll be asked to activate the device admin app. Select Activate to complete the set up. Note : For information about the Exchange device administrator prompt, visit our SFU Mail Technical FAQs . Congratulations! You've signed into SFU Mail on Samsung Email. For a list of available guides and documentation, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides . Overview This article describes how to sign into SFU Mail on the Samsung Mail app for Android devices.", "How-To Guides Overview This article provides the details on IMAP, SMTP and POP for SFU Mail (Exchange Online). This article also contains information the following: IMAP for General Emailing POP for General Emailing Settings Technical Requirements SFU Mail Retired Version (Exchange On-Premises) and IMAP Tip : To ensure the most seamless experience, we recommend that you use more modern ways to connect to SFU Mail, such as using Outlook with Exchange .", "SFU MAIL UPGRADE IMPLICATIONS WITH IMAP/POP\n\nBefore any re-configuring on an email account that has previously been set up with IMAP/POP, we strongly recommend backing up your emails . Any account modifications, such as removing the account, will result in loss of certain messages. These may vary depending on your application settings, however, the messages can can be potentially lost are: Locally saved emails (such as emails within folders set to \"This Computer Only\") Emails/folders not or have yet synced to servers, and Any other client-sided customizations , including Email Rules and Flags/Categories. IT Services has no way to recover any of these messages or settings since they were never stored on our servers.", "Once your SFU mailbox has been upgraded:\n\nIf you are using Thunderbird , you can re-configure the account settings to connect to the new server when your account is migrated. Avoid removing your account to prevent loss of data. If you are using any other application via IMAP , you will need to switch to Thunderbird or use a more modern connection method (e.g., Exchange).", "IMAP for General Emailing:\n\nIf you wish to use IMAP for general emailing purposes, the only application that meet the above requirements for IMAP is: Mozilla Thunderbird (available on Windows, Mac and Linux). Visit Sign into Mozilla Thunderbird for instructions to sign into SFU Mail using IMAP. Note : At this time, there are no mobile apps that can connect to SFU Mail using IMAP. Tip : Be sure to update your application to the latest version. Some older versions may not support OAuth2 and causing you to encounter errors.", "POP for General Emailing:\n\nUnfortunately, POP configurations are grandfathered. Any new request for POP connections are not available.", "Settings:\n\nIncoming Server (IMAP) Field Setting Protocol Hostname outlook.office365.com Port 993 Connection security", "SSL/TTS\n\nAuthentication method OAuth2 Username SFUComputingID@sfu.ca Outgoing Server (SMTP) Field Setting Hostname smtp.office365.com Port 587 Connection security", "STARTTLS\n\nAuthentication method OAuth2 Username SFUComputingID@sfu.ca Note : These settings shown above are only for SFU Mail on Exchange Online . If you are currently on On-Premises and have not upgraded to Exchange Online, you will need to use the older IMAP configurations. To see the older IMAP settings, visit the older IMAP Setup page . Not sure if you have upgraded to Exchange Online? See How Do I Know If I have Exchange Online under General FAQs.", "Technical Requirements:\n\nIn order to connect to SFU Mail using IMAP, your application will need to meet the following requirements: Your application need to be from the list of approved applications , and Your application need to support OAuth2 as the authentication method (Microsoft's Modern Authentication). SFU Mail Retired Version (Exchange On-Premises) and IMAP Note : This configuration is only available to select SFU service or application owners who need to connect to Exchange On-premises via IMAP. Exchange On-Premises IMAP Configurations Incoming Server (IMAP) Field Setting Protocol Hostname imapnew.sfu.ca Port 993 Connection security", "SSL/TTS\n\nAuthentication method Normal password Username YourComputingID@sfu.ca Outgoing Server (SMTP) Field Setting Hostname mailgate.sfu.ca Port 465 Connection security", "SSL/TTS\n\nAuthentication method Normal password Username YourComputingID@sfu.ca To ensure email password security, configuring your email application to use SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) is required.", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to sign into SFU Mail on web browser, also known as, Outlook Web App (OWA). Encountering errors when signing in? Try clearing your browser cookies or use another web browser, then following the guide below. Alternatively, try signing into SFU Mail using your browser's incognito or private mode.", "To sign into SFU Mail on web browser:\n\nGo to https://outlook.office.com", ", or select the button:\n\nVisit outlook.office.com Enter your SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca. Then, select . Enter your SFU Computing ID and password , then select", "S\n\nign In . If you are enrolled in MFA, you'll be asked to enter your MFA code . Congratulations! You've signed into SFU Mail on web browser. For a list of available guides and documentation, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides or Microsoft Training Center on Outlook on the Web (Videos) . 0% helpful - 1 review", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to sign into SFU Mail on Outlook Desktop (Windows and Mac). Note : Outlook Desktop is part of Microsoft 365, which is only available to current SFU staff, faculty and students . Alternatively, Outlook on Web Browser is available to all SFU Mail users. Download and Install Based on your device, select one of the following to download Outlook Desktop: Windows Install the Microsoft 365 Apps at portal.office.com . Visit the M365 Portal Prefer a guide? See Getting Started with Microsoft 365 at SFU. Mac Install Outlook for Mac on the App Store. Download Outlook for Mac Using an SFU-managed device ? Try installing through Software Center on your device. You may need to contact your local IT representative for installation assistance.", "To sign into SFU Mail on Outlook Desktop:\n\nLaunch Outlook and enter your SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca. Then, select Connect . Note: If you're not prompted to connect, see Add Another Account to Outlook below. If you are prompted to select an account type, select Microsoft 365 . Otherwise, skip this step. Enter your SFU Computing ID and password , then select Sign In. If you are enrolled in MFA, you'll be asked to enter your MFA code . Select Done . Congratulations! You've signed into SFU Mail on Outlook Desktop. Set up as Another Account", "To set up as another account on Outlook Desktop:\n\nWindows Mac Launch Outlook and go to the File tab on the top-left corner. Launch Outlook and go to the Tool tab on the top-left corner. Then, select Accounts... Select Add Account . Select the + (plus symbol) on the bottom-left corner. Then, select Add Email Account . Follow the steps as shown on your desktop. If you would like a guide, start at Step 1 from the guide above. For a list of available guides, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides or Microsoft Training Center on Outlook for Windows and Mac (Videos) .", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to sign into SFU Mail on Outlook Mobile (iOS and Android). Download and Install Based on your device, select one of the following to download and install Outlook Mobile:", "For iOS devices:\n\nDownload Outlook on App Store", "For Android devices:\n\nDownload Outlook on Google Play", "To sign into SFU Mail on Outlook Mobile:\n\nOpen the Outlook app. Then, select Add Account . Note: If you're not prompted to add an email, see Set up as Another Account for Outlook Mobile. Enter your SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca, then select Add Account or Continue . iOS Android If you are prompted to choose an account type, select Office 365 . Otherwise, skip this step. Enter your SFU Computing ID and password , then select Sign In. If you are enrolled in MFA, you'll be asked to enter your MFA code . When asked to add another account, select Maybe Later to complete the initial account setup. If you are prompted to Enable Notifications, you may choose either No Thanks or Turn On depending if you wish to receive alerts on your mobile device. Congratulations! You've signed into SFU Mail on Outlook for your mobile device. Set up as Another Account", "To set up as another account on Outlook Mobile:\n\nOpen the menu by selecting the Office 365 icon on the top-right corner. Select + (plus symbol) on the sidebar. Select Add an Account . Follow the steps as shown on your mobile device. If you would like a guide, start at Step 2 on the guide above. For a list of available guides and documentation, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides or Microsoft Training Center on Outlook for iOS and Android (Videos) .", "\u2190 Back to SFU Mail Home Page We're Upgrading SFU Mail FAQs and Common Issues How-To Guides Overview Aligned with the university\u2019s What\u2019s Next Objective: Transform the SFU experience and SFU's digital transformation , SFU is upgrading to Exchange Online, a new cloud-based email system. This upgrade aims to enhance IT security, improve user experience, and enabling access to Microsoft\u2019s suite of products like OneDrive, Teams and SharePoint. Between now and 2025, all SFU mailboxes will be upgrading to Exchange Online. This article describes the SFU Mail changes coming with Exchange Online: New Features SFU Mail on Browser Outlook on Desktop Microsoft Teams and other M365 Apps New Requirements Desktop Email Applications Mobile Email Applications IMAP, SMTP and POP Service Changes and Limits Mailbox Storage Limit Email Backup Data Security Compatibility Older Mobile Devices Older Browsers New Features", "SFU MAIL ON BROWSER\n\nNew and Mo derniz ed Look Focused Inbox Sweep and Archive Folder Snooze Feature Scheduling Email Delivery Improved Search Function Report Junk/Phishing Text Prediction, Suggestions for Meetings and Suggestions for Responses Enhanced File Previewing and Inline Video Playback Email integrations with OneDrive, SharePoint, and Microsoft Teams (e.g., suggested attachments ) Calendar and Event time zone selector when scheduling for a different time zone. Calendar and Event integrations with Microsoft Teams for quicker online meeting scheduling Calendar and Event Scheduling Polling to automatically schedule placeholders and administer voting for determine preferred dates/time Calendar and Event has integrated maps when event location is set to a specific address Microsoft Bookings integration with calendar", "OUTLOOK ON DESKTOP\n\nWhen creating a new calendar event/meeting on Outlook on desktop, there will be additional settings to generate a Microsoft Teams meeting link.", "MICROSOFT TEAMS AND OTHER M365 APPS\n\nYour Microsoft Teams status is automatically set based on your SFU Outlook Calendar. Note : If you don't wish your status to appear \"busy\" during calendar events or meetings (that you own), be sure to change the \"Show as\" of the event to \"Free\". For meetings you are tentatively attending or haven't accepted into your calendar, your status will appear \"free\" during those meetings. Your Microsoft Teams out-of-office message will automatically sync from your SFU Outlook automatic replies (out-of-office) and appear on your Microsoft Teams status. Your SFU Mail calendar is available directly on Microsoft Teams. New Requirements Why are there new requirements? As technology evolves, it is crucial to continuously assess and adjust our IT standards in an evolving cybersecurity landscape. The updates to SFU IT standards are aligned with What\u2019s Next: The SFU Strategy and SFU\u2019s digital transformation goals , and are designed to enhanced cybersecurity measures and protect research, academic, and business data across the university. With the addition of Exchange Online, every third-party application that connects to SFU Mail is considered a \u201csystem integration\u201d. This requires SFU to update IT security and compliance standards to comply with provincial privacy requirements. Each of these systems integrations requires a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) and a Security Assessment. Can I use my personal email app to access SFU Mail? Only third party tools approved for use by a University-supported initiative and backed by Privacy Impact and Security assessments will be enabled for SFU Mail access. Personal productivity and personal preferences for workflow aren't sufficient to allow third party tools that consume SFU email or calendar data. We encourage you to try Microsoft Outlook to access SFU Mail, as it's SFU's fully supported email client for personal desktop and mobile use while providing the most seamless experience. My App is", "MICROSOFT TEAMS AND OTHER M365 APPS\n\npreferences for workflow aren't sufficient to allow third party tools that consume SFU email or calendar data. We encourage you to try Microsoft Outlook to access SFU Mail, as it's SFU's fully supported email client for personal desktop and mobile use while providing the most seamless experience. My App is critical for research, learning, or other university business needs. How do I get my app approved? If you believe that your third-party application is critical for research, learning, or other university business needs, visit External Apps/Tool Changes and FAQs for details on getting your application approved by IT Services. Note : Exact timing will vary depending on your role at the university and will coincide with your mailbox migration to Exchange Online. Be sure to prepare any changes to your personal or business work flows.", "APPROVED DESKTOP EMAIL APPLICATIONS\n\nBelow are the approved desktop email applications that can connect to SFU Mail: Outlook for PC and Mac (this application is recommended and fully supported by the university) Apple Mail Mozilla Thunderbird w/ TBSync Plug-in (alternatively, OWL Plug-in via OWA protocol) No other applications will be able to connect to SFU Mail. Note : Outlook for PC is part of Microsoft 365, which is only available to current SFU staff, faculty and students. Alternatively, Outlook on Web Browser is available to all SFU Mail users.", "APPROVED MOBILE EMAIL APPLICATIONS\n\nBelow are the approved mobile email applications that can connect to SFU Mail: Outlook for Android and iOS (this application is recommended and fully supported by the university) Apple Mail Gmail (Android only)* Samsung Mail No other applications will be able to connect to SFU Mail. * Gmail for iOS currently does not support Modern Authentication (OAuth2). You will see \"Incorrect username or password\" when attempting to sign into Gmail on iOS until the vendor implements support.", "Below are changes on connecting to SFU Mail through protocols:\n\nIMAP, SMTP and POP configurations will require the OAuth2 or \"Modern Authentication\" authentication method to connect to SFU Mail once you are upgraded to Exchange Online. Additionally, such connections need to come from an approved application . POP configurations are not recommended since most clients automatically delete old messages which may be unintended. We strongly recommend you switch to another connection method. Since many applications don't support the new security requirement, OAuth2, you may need to switch to another application or connection method . IMAP, SMTP and POP connections will need to be reconfigured to a new server . For details, see IMAP/SMTP Setup .", "Third-party tools and integrations refers to applications connected to SFU Mail that sync or modify your SFU Mail inbox, calendar, or contacts . For instance, any tools/applications that connect to your SFU Mail account for activities like: Event or meeting booking (e.g. Calendly, Doodle AG), Project coordination (e.g. Asana), Productivity tools (e.g. Notability). SFU Mail will only connect to third-party apps/tools that are approved by IT Services for SFU\u2019s teaching-, research-, or business-critical activities, and are secure and compliant with provincial privacy regulations. Existing connections between SFU Mail and non-approved external tools/applications will stop working. The exact timing will coincide with the migration of your SFU mailbox to SFU\u2019s new upgraded email system, Exchange Online . You will receive an email notification in advance of this migration. Visit External Apps/Tools Changes and FAQs for details on upcoming changes in Summer 2024. Service Changes and Limits", "MAILBOX STORAGE LIMIT\n\nBy moving to a cloud-based environment, Exchange Online has introduced new service limits to all mailbox storage. These mailbox storage limits are determined by your SFU account's Microsoft licensing. As a general guideline, the following are: SFU faculty and staff and other users who are eligible for Office 365 (such as sponsored accounts with A3 Licensing) have a mailbox storage limit of", "100 GB\n\nSFU students have a mailbox storage limit of", "5 GB\n\nSFU retirees , emeritus , adjunct professors , and other users who are eligible for Office 365 online (such as sponsored accounts with standard licensing) have a mailbox storage limit of 5", "0 GB\n\nNote : If your mailbox is reaching these storage limits, evaluate your use of SFU Mail and efforts to reducing the volume of email stored. You may need to reconsider if an email system is the appropriate place for storage of the information currently being kept there.", "EMAIL BACKUP\n\nExchange Online has accident prevention features, such as soft-deletes ( Deleted Items or \"Trash bin\" ) and item recovery ( Recover Deleted Items ). To ensure efficient use of resourcing, neither Microsoft nor SFU provide indefinite backups to user data caused by personal mistakes. If you have accidentally deleted an item recently, you may be able to recover them. For more details, visit the Microsoft Support page on Recover Deleted Items in Outlook. Note : If your mailbox requires additional data resiliency, you are responsible for backing up your data.", "DATA SECURITY\n\nExchange Online (or SFU Mail) at SFU is protected by the enterprise-level security from Microsoft. Microsoft also provides the following to SFU Mail: Data access to files and folders on a user\u2019s Exchange Online Mailbox is only limited to the user account, Data replication of core user data to at least two geographically distributed Microsoft data center for disaster recovery purposes, and Encryption of data in transit and at rest. To learn more about Microsoft\u2019s trust and security related information, visit the Microsoft Trust Center . Compatibility", "OLDER MOBILE DEVICES\n\nIn order to connect to SFU Mail, your device will need to have a mail application that supports Microsoft's Modern Authentication (OAuth2). The following is a list of email applications that support Modern Authentication and its operating system: Outlook Mobile Android 8+ (i.e., Samsung Galaxy S7 and newer) iOS 15+ (i.e., iPhone 6S or newer) Apple Mail Mac OS X 10.14 iPadOS 13.1 iOS 11+ (i.e., iPhone 5S or newer) Gmail for Android only Android 5.0+ (i.e., Samsung Galaxy S5 and newer) Samsung Mail Android 8+ (i.e., Samsung Galaxy S7 and newer) If your device does not support Modern Authentication, you will either need to upgrade or switch to another device. If that's not possible, you may use SFU Mail through a web browser .", "OLDER BROWSERS\n\nGenerally speaking, unsupported browsers would be browsers versions with a release date prior to 2018. Visiting SFU Mail on an unsupported browser will display a light version of Outlook . Details for support browsers and minimum requirements for SFU Mail (powered by Outlook on the web) can be found on Microsoft's page about Supported browsers for Outlook on the web . Encountering issues? Visit our SFU Mail Migration FAQs and Common Issues . Looking for further support? Send a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form.", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nTbSync is an add-on/extension for Mozilla Thunderbird. It provides additional extensions that enable Thunderbird to sync calendar events and contacts with Microsoft Exchange servers.", "DISCLAIMER\n\nThe TB Sync developers are responsible for maintaining the Thunderbird add-on. They have mentioned removing Exchange Online compatibility due to difficulty with keeping up with Microsoft updates. If TB Sync is no longer working for you, consider using OWL (a user paid add-on/extension) that uses different protocols to syncs mail, calendar and contacts from Exchange Online. Note : This setup guide applies to users that have signed into Thunderbird on PC To setup TbSync on Mozilla Thunderbird to support synchronization for your SFU Mail Account: Access the \" Add-ons/Extensions \" tab in Thunderbird \u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b\u200b Launch Mozilla Thunderbird on your computer As shown in the image below, follow the arrow on the bottom left and click on the gear icon to access \" Settings \" Alternatively, Click on the menu bar and select \"Settings\" After accessing the settings tab, locate and click \"Add-ons and Themes\" on the bottom left of the settings screen to access the \"Add-ons Manager\" Add \" TbSync \" and \" Provider for Exchange ActiveSync \" In the Add-ons manager tab, click on \"Extensions\" and in the search bar type \" TbSync \" You will be directed to the add-ons page on the browser. Locate TbSync and click \"Add to Thunderbird\" Repeat the process for \" Provider for Exchange ActiveSync \" - Search and click \" Add to Thunderbird \" After adding these extensions to Thunderbird, navigate back to the Add-ons Manager tab and you will find your extensions listed In the Add-ons Manager tab, enable \" TbSync \" and \" Provider for Exchange ActiveSync \" by toggling the different switches to blue Add SFU Mail account to \" TbSync \" Click on the wrench icon as directed in the arrow below and the \" TbSync account manager \" will pop-up Under \" Account Settings \", follow the", "DISCLAIMER\n\n\" and \" Provider for Exchange ActiveSync \" by toggling the different switches to blue Add SFU Mail account to \" TbSync \" Click on the wrench icon as directed in the arrow below and the \" TbSync account manager \" will pop-up Under \" Account Settings \", follow the instructions in the image below to access the \" Account Information \" window. Select \" Microsoft Office 365 \", input your SFU email ID and click \" Add account \" You will be redirected to the SFU Sign-in page for authorization. Input your SFU Computing ID and password, then click \" \" Your SFU account will now be displayed in the accounts section of the TbSync Account Manager Check the \" enable and synchronize this account \" box and all the boxes under \" Enable and synchronize this account \" as directed in the image below. Adjust your periodic synchronization to your desired preference and click \" synchronize now \" You are now ready to use Thunderbird TbSync and Thunderbird will periodically synchronize your data with Microsoft Exchange Servers.", "\u2190 Back to SFU Mail Home Page We're Upgrading SFU Mail FAQs and Common Issues New Changes to SFU Mail How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article lists frequently asked questions (FAQs) and common issues you may encounter with the SFU Mail Upgrade & Migration to Exchange Online. General FAQs Common Issues after Upgrade Shared Item Issues (Shared Calendars, Mailbox Permissions, Shared Folders, Delegate Access) Sponsored Account (Multiple Account Usages, Delegate Login) Technical FAQs General FAQs What is exchange online and why is it being adopted? Exchange Online is a cloud-based email and calendaring solution provided by Microsoft as part of Microsoft 365. It offers secure and reliable email communication, calendaring, and collaboration tools accessible from anywhere with and Internet connection. Aligned with the What\u2019s Next: The SFU Strategy and SFU's digital transformation , IT Services continues to adapt to the evolving technological landscape and foster a culture of digital engagement that will empower students, faculty and staff to achieve our academic mandate. SFU is introducing more Microsoft 365 (M365) features to help you with online collaboration and productivity at the university. By adopting Exchange Online with SFU Mail, these new M365 features will become available to you on SFU Mail. How do I know if I have Exchange Online? There will be two major changes once your account is upgraded to Exchange Online: You will be asked to log into Microsoft when signing into SFU Mail . Your sign in email will be \u201cYourComputingID@sfu.ca\u201d. The user interface will be modernized when accessing SFU Mail on browser. What are the benefits from transitioning to Exchange online? With Exchange Online, SFU Mail users will have enhance IT security, improve user experience and utilize more Microsoft Cloud resources. For details on new features, visit New Change to SFU Mail . How do I access SFU email with Exchange Online? To access SFU Mail on browser, visit Sign into SFU Mail on Browser for instructions. When WILL i", "OVERVIEW\n\nIT security, improve user experience and utilize more Microsoft Cloud resources. For details on new features, visit New Change to SFU Mail . How do I access SFU email with Exchange Online? To access SFU Mail on browser, visit Sign into SFU Mail on Browser for instructions. When WILL i BE transitioned TO EXCHANGE ONLINE? Between 2023 and 2025, your SFU mailbox account will be upgraded to Exchange Online. You will receive an email two weeks prior to your account being scheduled to the upgrade. For the most up-to-date information, visit We're Upgrading SFU Mail . CAN I BE transitioned EARLier? To ensure a seamless migration process, we have established a structured plan that prioritizes specific groups of mailboxes within the organization. Unfortunately, we are unable to accommodate individual requests for early migration at this time due to these complex considerations. Will there be interruptions or Impacts? Yes, there is expected to be both interruptions to SFU Mail and impacts to how you use SFU Mail, which may include: A new Microsoft sign in page A new SFU Mail URL for browser access Only approved apps can connect to SFU Mail For details on what you need to know, see We're Upgrading SFU Mail . I've just activated my computing ID, but I can't sign into SFU Mail. What should I do? If you encounter this issue and you've just recently activated your SFU computing ID, your mailbox account is still being set up. It will take approximately 1 hour. Please try again after at least one hour has passed after activating your SFU computing ID. Common Issues after Upgrade", "SIGN IN ISSUES\n\nOn browser, I see \"Something went wrong. We couldn't find a mailbox for this recipient/account.\" What should I do? You will see this error if your browser cookies may be invalid. Try clearing your browser cookies , or a different browser , and sign into https://outlook.office.com/ . If you are still encountering sign in issues after your upgrade, contact us using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. On iOS or Apple Mail, I can't sign in after the upgrade. What should I do? You will need to remove any existing SFU Mail account from Apple Mail and re-add your account. See Remove an existing SFU Mail account from Apple Mail for Mac for instructions. Note for IMAP/POP Users : Before any re-configuring on an email account that has previously been set up with IMAP/POP, we strongly recommend backing up your emails. Any account modifications, such as removing the account, will result in a loss of certain messages . To reconnect with IMAP/POP accounts, update your server configurations shown on IMAP Setup . On Outlook, I can't sign in after the upgrade. What should I do? You will need to sign out all your existing mail accounts from the application, and re-add your SFU Mail account. Visit Sign into SFU Mail on Desktop for set up instructions for Outlook Desktop. Note for IMAP/POP Users : Before any re-configuring on an email account that has previously been set up with IMAP/POP, we strongly recommend backing up your emails. Any account modifications, such as removing the account, will result in a loss of certain messages . Since Outlook no longer supports IMAP/POP, you will need to sign in using Exchange or another application that supports IMAP .", "FEATURE-RELATED\n\nMy Email Signatures are missing, what do I do? As part of the SFU Mail upgrade, email signatures are wiped on server-sided applications, such as on SFU Mail on web browser. We kindly ask you to re-add your email signatures to your account. You may find your email signatures in a previously sent email. Why are some legitimate emails getting junked or missing? We've recognized this issue and collaborating with Microsoft to get this resolved. To assist us with this process, we encourage you to select Not Junk on legitimate emails by: 1. At your Junk Email folder, select messages that are misidentified as junk. 2. Select Report , then Not Junk . If you believe to be missing legitimate emails , please send us a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. Note : If you're an alumni who have been using Alumni Email Forwarding , the service have been retired since June 1, 2024. For details, visit this SFU announcement . How do I disable Focused Inbox? Visit this Microsoft article on Focused Inbox for Outlook", "for instructions on:\n\nTurn Focused Inbox on or off Change how your messages get organized (if you wish to move certain messages from Focused to Other, or the other way around). How do i disable text prediction? Visit this Microsoft article on Editor Text Predictions in Outlook for instructions to turn off Text Predictions. Shared Item Issues", "SHARED CALENDARS, MAILBOX PERMISSIONS, SHARED FOLDERS, DELEGATE ACCESS\n\nMy Shared Calendar (Department Calendar, Vacation Calendar, Etc.) No longer works. How do I fix this issue? If either myself or the calendar owner have upgraded to Exchange Online and the other haven't upgraded yet: \u2022 Solution : You will need to wait until both yourself and the calendar owner have upgraded to Exchange Online. As a temporary work around, you may ask the calendar owner or a colleague who has the calendar working to add meetings/events on your behalf. If both myself and the calendar owner have upgraded to Exchange Online: \u2022 Solution : You will need to ask the calendar owner to re-share the calendar to you. See re-sharing a calendar . Not sure if you have upgraded to Exchange Online? See How Do I Know If I have Exchange Online under General FAQs. My Mailbox and Folder Permissions no longer works. How do I fix this issue? If either myself or the account owner have upgraded to Exchange Online and the other haven't upgraded yet: \u2022 This feature is unavailable : You will need to wait until both yourself and the mailbox/folder owner have upgraded to Exchange Online. If both myself and the account owner have upgraded to Exchange Online: \u2022 Solution : You will need to re-add the shared mailbox and folders. See re-add a shared mail folder or mailbo x. Not sure if you have upgraded to Exchange Online? See How Do I Know If I have Exchange Online under General FAQs. My Delegate Permissions (Calendar and Respond to Invitations on Behalf of) no longer works. How do I fix this issue? If either myself or the account owner have upgraded to Exchange Online and the other haven't upgraded yet: \u2022 This feature remains available only on Outlook for Windows . If you use SFU", "SHARED CALENDARS, MAILBOX PERMISSIONS, SHARED FOLDERS, DELEGATE ACCESS\n\n(Calendar and Respond to Invitations on Behalf of) no longer works. How do I fix this issue? If either myself or the account owner have upgraded to Exchange Online and the other haven't upgraded yet: \u2022 This feature remains available only on Outlook for Windows . If you use SFU Mail on Browser , you can only view the calendar invites and won't be able to edit or respond to invitations as a delegate. If both myself and the account owner have upgraded to Exchange Online: \u2022 This feature should be working normally. Double-check that both yourself and the account owner are on Exchange Online. If you're still encountering issues, send a request ticket on IT ServiceHub . Not sure if you have upgraded to Exchange Online? See How Do I Know If I have Exchange Online under General FAQs. My Send on Behalf/Send As Permissions no longer works. How do I fix this issue? If either myself or the account owner have upgraded to Exchange Online and the other haven't upgraded yet: \u2022 This feature remains available only on SFU Mail on Browser or Outlook for Windows. If both myself and the account owner have upgraded to Exchange Online: \u2022 This feature should be working normally. Double-check that both yourself and the account owner are on Exchange Online. If you're still encountering issues, send a request ticket on IT ServiceHub . Not sure if you have upgraded to Exchange Online? See How Do I Know If I have Exchange Online under General FAQs. My Location/Resource Account is no longer accessible. How do I continue using \"Open as another mailbox\" to access the account? If either myself or the resource account have upgraded to Exchange Online and the other haven't upgraded yet: \u2022 Solution : You will need to wait", "SHARED CALENDARS, MAILBOX PERMISSIONS, SHARED FOLDERS, DELEGATE ACCESS\n\nOnline under General FAQs. My Location/Resource Account is no longer accessible. How do I continue using \"Open as another mailbox\" to access the account? If either myself or the resource account have upgraded to Exchange Online and the other haven't upgraded yet: \u2022 Solution : You will need to wait until both yourself and the resource account have upgraded to Exchange Online. If you are using Outlook for Windows , this feature will remain available only on that application. If both myself and the resource account have upgraded to Exchange Online: \u2022 This feature should be working normally. Double-check that both yourself and the resource account are on Exchange Online. If you're still encountering issues, send a request ticket on IT ServiceHub . Not sure if you have upgraded to Exchange Online? See How Do I Know If I have Exchange Online under General FAQs. Sponsored Account", "MULTIPLE ACCOUNT USAGES, DELEGATE LOGIN\n\nHow do I use Delegate Login to sign into my Sponsored Account on SFU Mail? For sign-in instructions for sponsored accounts and delegate login, see Sign into SFU Mail with Sponsored Accounts . If you encounter the error, \"You are not authorized to impersonate the indicated user at this time.\", the account sponsor or manager will need to set you up with the delegate role for your SFU account. You may send the account sponsor/manager this article: Getting Started with the DAM as an Account Sponsor . I use multiple accounts on SFU Mail. Will my accounts migrate together? It's possible. Migration, or upgrade batches, are completed by the account's dependencies (whether or not the account has a shared item with another account). If one of your account don't have shared dependencies, it's likely your accounts will have different migration dates.", "As a reminder, please take note of the following:\n\n\u2022 Both weblinks, mail.sfu.ca and outlook.office.com, will work for both non-upgraded and upgraded accounts. Our system automatically detects whether or not your account has migrated and redirects you to the correct Microsoft environment. \u2022 For each account upgraded, you may need to remove and re-add the upgraded account on your email applications. My Sponsored account has upgraded whereas my personal account hasn't (or vice-versa). Will this cause complications with delegate login? \u2022 Delegate login will work on both outlook.sfu.ca and mail.sfu.ca. Our system automatically detects whether or not your account has migrated and redirects you to the correct Microsoft environment. \u2022 Delegate login on email applications , such as Outlook on Desktop, will continue to work normally. For sign-in instructions for sponsored accounts and delegate login, see Sign into SFU Mail with Sponsored Accounts . Technical FAQs", "GENERAL\n\nHow secure is Exchange Online? Exchange Online (or SFU Mail) at SFU is protected by the enterprise-level security from Microsoft. Microsoft also provides the following to SFU Mail: Data access to files and folders on a user\u2019s Exchange Online Mailbox is only limited to the user account, Data replication of core user data to at least two geographically distributed Microsoft data center for disaster recovery purposes, and Encryption of data in transit and at rest. To learn more about Microsoft\u2019s trust and security related information, visit the Microsoft Trust Center . Why is mail.sfu.ca becoming outdated? The current SFU Mail weblink, https://mail.sfu.ca , will continue to work even after upgrading to Exchange Online. However, you may encounter some issues with the redirects to Outlook, https://outlook.office.com , where your browser settings, certificates and cookies may cause problems. Be sure to use https://outlook.office.com for the most seamless experience. When I try to connect to SFU Mail on mobile, I see a \"Device Administrator\" Prompt. What is this? The prompt, including the listed permissions, is standard messaging when an Exchange account is connected to an email server with controls in place. In this case, SFU Mail has cybersecurity rules imposed by Exchange ActiveSync to enforce a consistent level of security and controls across connected devices. SFU IT administrators do not have such capabilities on your personal devices . All users of SFU systems are bound by GP-24 which outlines appropriate use and access to electronic records, and IT staff are given appropriate role-based access to perform the work necessary for only their job function; accessing data on a personal device without user consent would be a violation of that policy. Activating Device Administrator allows Exchange to enforce cybersecurity rules onto your device for it to operate securely within the SFU environment (i.e., signing", "GENERAL\n\naccess to perform the work necessary for only their job function; accessing data on a personal device without user consent would be a violation of that policy. Activating Device Administrator allows Exchange to enforce cybersecurity rules onto your device for it to operate securely within the SFU environment (i.e., signing into SFU using your computing ID and MFA), and conversely, allowing your device to access SFU-related data, such as role and contact information on SFU's Exchange GAL, through a secure connection.", "EXTERNAL AND THIRD-PARTY APPS/TOOLS\n\nCan I use my personal Email app to access SFU Mail? Only third party tools approved for use by a University-supported initiative and backed by Privacy Impact and Security assessments will be enabled for SFU Mail access. Personal productivity and personal preferences for workflow aren't sufficient to allow third party tools that consume SFU email or calendar data. We encourage you to try Microsoft Outlook to access SFU Mail, as it's SFU's fully supported email client for personal desktop and mobile use while providing the most seamless experience. My App is critical for research, learning, or other university business needs. How do I get my app approved? If you believe that your third-party application is critical for research, learning, or other university business needs, visit External Apps/Tool Changes and FAQs for details on getting your application approved by IT Services. Can I use IMAP/POP with my Email application? You can only connect to SFU Mail through IMAP/POP with select applications. Email applications will require OAuth2 authentication method and approved by IT Services (enabled by an Exchange IT Administrator) for it to connect to SFU Mail. Unless you are using this connection/app for teaching-, research- or business-critical activities, we recommend switching to a modern connection method. Visit IMAP/SMTP Setup for details. I can't sign into my application, even though it's approved. What should i Do? Ensure that your application is up to date on the latest version. Older versions may not support Exchange Online requirements and cause this error. Looking for technical details on changes to third-party applications connected to SFU Mail? See External Apps/Tools Changes and FAQs . Looking for support? Send a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. Related Services / Offerings (1) SFU mail is the emailing system at SFU for all SFU", "EXTERNAL AND THIRD-PARTY APPS/TOOLS\n\ntechnical details on changes to third-party applications connected to SFU Mail? See External Apps/Tools Changes and FAQs . Looking for support? Send a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form. Related Services / Offerings (1) SFU mail is the emailing system at SFU for all SFU members.", "Infrastructure Server and Storage Management Microsoft OneDrive", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article details what happens to content you have stored in Microsoft 365 after you leave the university. What happens when you leave SFU Your Microsoft 365 account at SFU may change depending on the type of role you had at the university. For a detailed breakdown, see below: Students Alumni Former Student Employees SFU Retiree/Professor Emeritus Former Employee Sponsored Accounts Students Alumni As an alum of the university you will retain access to Microsoft 365 products/services for 1-year starting from the end of your last semester in which you registered for classes. After this grace-period your Microsoft 365 account at SFU will be removed and data associated with your account will be destroyed.", "After your 1-year grace period:\n\nYou will retain your @sfu.ca email address and email content. Content stored in your OneDrive space will remain available. Content stored in OneNote will remain available. Your @sfu.ca email content will be removed. Content stored in your OneDrive space will be removed. Content stored in OneNote will be removed. As an alum, what should you do as you graduate from SFU? Firstly, congratulations! The things you should consider after leaving SFU are: Download any files/documents/data you'd like to keep to a personal device. Retain any emails you may need on a personal device. If you've shared any files from your OneDrive space with colleagues who need on-going access, ensure they have a copy of the file or store it in a space they can access after you leave. Update your contact information at https://www.sfu.ca/alumni/stay-connected/update-your-information.html to ensure uninterrupted access to, and information about alumni events, exclusive alumni programs, and benefits. Former Student (Non-Alumni) As a former student of the university you will retain access to Microsoft 365 products/services for 1-year starting from the end of your last semester in which you registered for classes. After this grace-period your Microsoft 365 account at SFU will be removed and data associated with your account will be destroyed.", "After your 1-year grace period:\n\nYou will retain your @sfu.ca email address and email content. Content stored in your OneDrive space will remain available. Content stored in OneNote will remain available. Your former @sfu.ca email address and email content will be removed. Content stored in your OneDrive space will be removed. Content stored in OneNote will be removed. As an former student, what should you do as you transition from SFU? Download any files/documents/data you'd like to keep to a personal device. Retain any emails you may need on a personal device. If you've shared any files from your OneDrive space with colleagues who need on-going access, ensure they have a copy of the file or store it in a space they can access after you leave. Employees SFU Retiree/Professor Emeritus As a retiree or professor emeritus you will retain access to most Microsoft 365 services to support any continuing engagement you may have with the university. However, changes to features and limits will affect your account as it transitions to a retiree/emeritus plan.", "What will change:\n\nYour email address and email content. Content stored in your OneDrive space. Microsoft Teams. You will lose access to Microsoft 365 desktop applications (such as Word, Excel...etc). However, the online versions will remain available to you at https://www.microsoft365.com/ . Your @sfu.ca email account will be swapped to a retiree/emeritus plan with a 50GB limit. Your OneDrive space will be capped at 100GB (note: if you are over this limit you will still be able to retrieve your files but you will be unable to edit or add more until you are under this cap). As a retiree/professor emeritus, what should you do as you transition from SFU? Prepare to transition to the online versions of Microsoft 365 apps (such as Word, Excel...etc) by storing desktop files in your on-going online OneDrive space. If your @sfu.ca email account is over 50GB then prepare to reduce the size of your email inbox by backing up any data you want to keep . If you have over 100 GB of files stored in your OneDrive space prepare to download excess files until you are under the 100 GB limit. Former Employee As a former employee of the university you will lose access to Microsoft 365 products at different intervals after you drop from SFU's payroll system.", "After 1-year:\n\nYour email address and email content. Microsoft 365 apps (such as Word, Excel...etc) and services associated with your SFU account. Content stored in your OneDrive space. Microsoft Teams. Your former @sfu.ca email address and email content will be removed. You will loose access to M365 apps and services associated with your SFU account (Word, OneDrive, Teams). As a former employee, what should you do as you transition from SFU? If you've shared any files from your OneDrive space with colleagues who need on-going access, ensure they have a copy of the file or store it in a space they can access after you leave. Sponsored Accounts Sponsored accounts have various uses to support the university and are renewed annually. If an account isn't renewed it will lose access to Microsoft 365 apps and services. For more details, see below. Upon not being renewed the sponsored account will lose access to: The email address and content associated with the sponsored account. Access to Microsoft 365 desktop applications (such as Word, Excel...etc). Content stored in the OneDrive space of the sponsored account Microsoft Teams. As a sponsored account owner, what should you do before you choose to not renew a sponsored account? If the sponsored account has shared files from OneDrive with colleagues who need on-going access, ensure they have a copy of the file or store them in a space they can access. Retain any files you may need in a location that's appropriate to the purpose of the account. For example, if the account was for departmental use this may be a shared location (such as a network drive).", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to add or remove members on your group on SFU Groups. Add Members Remove Members Add Members", "STEP 1\n\nGo to groups.sfu.ca and select Manage Your Groups on the left side.", "STEP 2\n\nFind and select the Group you wish to change membership.", "STEP 3\n\nFor Exchange Distribution Groups, select the privilege tab that you wish to assign. For Security Groups, you can only change Group Members. See Assigning Privileges for more info.", "STEP 4\n\nSelect Add Members .", "STEP 5\n\nUnder New Members , enter the individual's SFU computing ID or email address. Alternatively, you can add another group as a member. Once you are done, select Submit .", "STEP 6\n\nCongratulations! You've added members to your group. You may need to wait an additional 30 minute for changes to sync to Microsoft. Select Continue to finish. Remove Members", "STEP 1\n\nGo to groups.sfu.ca and select Manage Your Groups on the left side.", "STEP 2\n\nFind and select the Group you wish to change membership.", "STEP 3\n\nFor Exchange Distribution Groups, select the privilege tab that you wish to remove. For Security Groups, you can only change Group Members. See Assigning Privileges for more info.", "STEP 4\n\nSelect Trash bin next to the individual you wish to remove.", "STEP 5\n\nSelect Remove Members .", "STEP 6\n\nCongratulations! You've removed members to your group. You may need to wait an additional 30 minute for changes to sync to Microsoft. Select Continue to finish.", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to change group properties or sender restrictions on SFU Groups. Change Group Properties Change Sender Restrictions", "NEED TO CHANGE YOUR GROUP NAMES?\n\nBecause group names are used as identifiers across different SFU systems, only Grouper IT admins can change group names by request. Visit our SFU Groups FAQ . Change Group Properties Open SFU Groups by going to groups.sfu.ca . Select Manage Your Groups on the left sidebar. Find the Group you wish to edit properties on. Then, select the group . Select Edit Group Properties . Change your Group Properties as needed. Then, select Submit . Change Sender Restrictions Open SFU Groups by going to groups.sfu.ca . Select Manage Your Groups on the left sidebar. Find the Group you wish to edit properties on. Then, select the group . Note : Sender restrictions are only for Exchange Distribution Groups. Select Edit Distribution Group Settings . Change your Sender Restrictions as needed. Then, select Submit . If you are enabling sender restrictions, be sure to add members on Allowed Sender or Denied Senders if you wish to further adjust permissions to your distribution group. Visit Assigning Privileges for more information.", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Information Security Identity and Access Management Group Management How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to view your group membership on SFU Groups. View Group Membership Open SFU Groups by going to groups.sfu.ca . Select Your Group Memberships on the left sidebar. All the groups listed here have you as a member. You may adjust the filters as needed to search particular groups. Note : You won't be able to add or remove yourself from groups. Only group managers can add or remove groups .", "For questions about Group Management or SFU Groups:\n\nVisit our SFU Groups FAQ .", "For additional assistance:\n\nRequest a support ticket using Group Management - Submit Question or Inquiry . Related Services / Offerings (1) Group Management Group Management simplifies access management by letting you use the same group or role across many services at SFU.", "Overview This article describes how to set up your email signature on the web version of SFU Mail. Create your signature Select your default signature Create your signature using SFU's official templates Details Create your signature Sign into outlook.office.com In the navigation bar, click the gear icon to open Settings By default, settings for Mail should already be selected. Click Accounts to access your email signatures . Enter a name and create the signature you want to use. You can also create your signature using SFU's official templates . Click Save . Select your default signature Under Email Signature", ", select which signature is used when:\n\nA new message is created Replying to or forwarding a message Click Save to apply the changes. Create your signature using SFU's official templates To create a signature using SFU's official templates, copy the text and images below and paste it into the signature creation text box . Replace the placeholder text with your information, delete the sections that are not needed, and follow the formatting guidelines. Official SFU email signature Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU email signature with territorial acknowledgement Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU Signature with Gender Pronouns Your Name Pronouns: they, them, their | she, her, hers | he, him, his Your Title | Your Department Simon Fraser University | Your Building Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604 123 4567 | M: 604 123 4567 | website Facebook | Twitter", "Your Name:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: bold Color: black", "Your Title | Your Department:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: normal Color: black", "Location and Contact Information:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: normal Color: black Use | to separate items", "Social Media:\n\nSocial media addresses should be hyperlinked to their respective platform name, not the social media handle name Delete social media names that are not needed For more information regarding SFU email signatures and branding, see Communicators Toolkit - Email Signature . Overview This article describes how to set up your email signature on the web version of SFU Mail. Create your signature Select your default signature Create your signature using SFU's official templates Create your signature Create your signature Select your default signature Select your default signature Create your signature using SFU's official templates Create your signature using SFU's official templates", "Overview This article describes how to set up your email signature on the Outlook for Mobile apps for iOS and Android. Details Create your signature in Outlook Tap on your profile icon in the upper left Tap on the gear icon on the lower left to open Settings Under Mail, tap Signature Tap the signature to create or edit it Tap the checkmark on the upper right to save your changes Your signature will appear on all new messages and replies/forwards. If you have multiple accounts in Outlook, you can configure the signatures on a per account basis or use the same signature across all accounts by disabling/enabling Per Account Signature . Create your signature using SFU's Official Templates To create your signature usi ng SFU's official templates, copy the text and images below and paste it into the signature creation text box. Replace the placeholder text with your information and delete the sections that are not needed. Official SFU email signature Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU email signature with territorial acknowledgement Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU Signature with Gender Pronouns Your Name Pronouns: they, them, their | she, her, hers | he, him, his Your Title | Your Department Simon Fraser University | Your Building Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604 123 4567 | M: 604 123 4567 | website Facebook | Twitter For more information regarding SFU email signatures and branding, see Communicators Toolkit - Email Signature . Overview This article describes how to", "Simon Fraser University | Your Building Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604 123 4567 | M: 604 123 4567 | website Facebook | Twitter For more information regarding SFU email signatures and branding, see Communicators Toolkit - Email Signature . Overview This article describes how to set up your email signature on the Outlook for Mobile apps for iOS and Android.", "Overview This article describes how to share, open, and remove shared folders from Outlook for Mac. It is intended for individuals who are using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience . If you're using the previous version of SFU Mail, please see Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook for Mac . Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting", "Known Limitations:\n\nThe new Outlook for Mac supports opening shared folders, but does not allow you to change folder permissions to share them. To share your folders from Outlook for Mac, use Outlook 2021 for Mac or configure your folder permissions from the web ( outlook.office.com ). Shares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online Owners can only share folder permissions with other individuals in the same environment. For example, if the owner is using SFU Mail with Exchange Online, they can only share their folders with other individuals who are also using SFU Mail with Exchange Online. Not sure which SFU Mail you're using? See the \"How do I know if I've been migrated?\" section in We're Upgrading SFU Mail . Details Sharing your mailbox folder in Outlook To share your mailbox folder, you'll need to do the following in sequence: Grant sharing permissions for your top-level mailbox Grant sharing permissions to your mailbox folder(s) Granting sharing permissions for your mailbox Right click your email address and select Sharing Permissions... In the Properties window, select Add User... Search for and add the individual you'd like to grant access to. Grant them Reviewer permissions to give them read-only permissions. Then select", "OK\n\n. Granting sharing permissions for your mailbox folder(s) The process to grant sharing permissions for your mailbox folders is the same as your mailbox: Right click the folder and select Sharing Permissions... In the Properties window, select Add User... Search for and add the individual you'd like to grant access to. When granting permissions to this folder, you may want to give them the following permissions or higher: Reviewer : reviewers can read your messages Nonediting Author : nonediting authors can read your messages and drop messages into a folder If the folder is a subfolder, repeat steps 1-4 for each folder the subfolder is nested in. For a list of permission levels and their capabilities, see Microsoft's article Options for sharing and delegating folders in Outlook for Mac . Opening a shared folder as a recipient In the menu bar, select the Tools menu then Accounts... Select Advanced... Select the Delegates tab. Then add the mailbox under Open these additional mailboxes . It can take several minutes for the mailbox and shared folder(s) to appear under your list of accounts. For instructions for the New Outlook for Mac and older versions, see Microsoft's article Open a shared Mail, Calendar or People folder in Outlook for Mac . Removing a shared mailbox folder To remove a shared mailbox folder, right click and mailbox and select Remove Shared Account . Troubleshooting Issue Cause Try the following Mailbox or mailbox folder doesn't appear Recipient has not been granted the appropriate permissions at the folder or mailbox level to access the folder Permissions have not yet had a chance to synchronize to the client Have the owner double check their mailbox and shared folder permissions It can take several minutes for the mailbox and shared folder(s) to appear under your list of accounts.", "OK\n\nthe folder or mailbox level to access the folder Permissions have not yet had a chance to synchronize to the client Have the owner double check their mailbox and shared folder permissions It can take several minutes for the mailbox and shared folder(s) to appear under your list of accounts. You can also select Send and Receive to initiate the syncing. If you still don't see the shared mailbox or folder, try restarting Outlook. Overview This article describes how to share, open, and remove shared folders from Outlook for Mac. It is intended for individuals who are using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience . If you're using the previous version of SFU Mail, please see Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook for Mac . SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook for Mac Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Open and add a shared mailbox folder Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting Troubleshooting", "Known Limitations:\n\nThe new Outlook for Mac supports opening shared folders, but does not allow you to change folder permissions to share them. To share your folders from Outlook for Mac, use Outlook 2021 for Mac or configure your folder permissions from the web ( outlook.office.com ). Shares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted.", "Known Limitations:\n\nThe new Outlook for Mac supports opening shared folders, but does not allow you to change folder permissions to share them. To share your folders from Outlook for Mac, use Outlook 2021 for Mac or configure your folder permissions from the web ( outlook.office.com ). Shares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. The new Outlook for Mac supports opening shared folders, but does not allow you to change folder permissions to share them. To share your folders from Outlook for Mac, use Outlook 2021 for Mac or configure your folder permissions from the web ( outlook.office.com ). outlook.office.com Shares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online Owners can only share folder permissions with other individuals in the same environment. For example, if the owner is using SFU Mail with Exchange Online, they can only share their folders with other individuals who are also using SFU Mail with Exchange Online. Not sure which SFU Mail you're using? See the \"How do I know if I've been migrated?\" section in We're Upgrading SFU Mail . SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online We're Upgrading SFU Mail", "How-To Guides Overview This article describes how to set up your SFU Mail signature for Outlook for Mac. These instructions apply to both the New Outlook for Mac and Legacy Outlook (Outlook 2021). Create your signature in Outlook Select your signature for new messages and replies Create your signature using an official SFU template Description Create your signature in Outlook Select Microsoft Outlook in the menu bar and select Settings... Select Signatures Select + and type a name for the signature Type your signature and format it the way you like. You can also create your signature using an official SFU template Select the floppy disk icon to save, or close the window and select Save when prompted Select your signature for new messages and replies Select Microsoft Outlook in the menu bar and select Settings... Select Signatures Under Choose default signature , select the account and signature for new messages and replies/forwards. Create your signature using an official SFU template To create a signature using SFU's official templates, copy the text and images below and paste it into the signature creation text box . Replace the placeholder text with your information, delete the sections that are not needed, and follow the formatting guidelines. Official SFU email signature Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU email signature with territorial acknowledgement Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU Signature with Gender Pronouns Your Name Pronouns: they, them, their | she, her, hers | he, him, his Your Title | Your Department Simon Fraser University |", "Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU Signature with Gender Pronouns Your Name Pronouns: they, them, their | she, her, hers | he, him, his Your Title | Your Department Simon Fraser University | Your Building Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604 123 4567 | M: 604 123 4567 | website Facebook | Twitter", "Your Name:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: bold Color: black", "Your Title | Your Department:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: normal Color: black", "Location and Contact Information:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: normal Color: black Use | to separate items", "Social Media:\n\nSocial media addresses should be hyperlinked to their respective platform name, not the social media handle name Delete social media names that are not needed For more information regarding SFU email signatures and branding, see Communicators Toolkit - Email Signature .", "Overview This article describes how to set up your signature for SFU Mail on Outlook for PC. Create your email signature in Outlook Select your default signature for new messages and replies/forwards Create your signature using an official SFU template Details Create your email signature in Outlook Select New Email Select Signature > Signatures... Select New , type a name for the signature, and select", "OK\n\nType your signature and format it how you'd like. You can also create your signature using an official SFU template Select", "OK\n\nto save your changes Select your default signature for new messages and replies/forwards Select New Email Select Signature > Signatures In the upper-right, select the signature you'd like to use for new message and replies/forwards Select", "OK\n\nto save your changes Create your signature using an official SFU template To create a signature using SFU's official templates, copy the text and images below and paste it into the signature creation text box. Replace the placeholder text with your information, delete the sections that are not needed, and follow the formatting guidelines. Official SFU email signature Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU email signature with territorial acknowledgement Your Name Your Title | Department Simon Fraser University | Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604.123.4567 | M: 604.123.4567 | website Facebook | Twitter Official SFU Signature with Gender Pronouns Your Name Pronouns: they, them, their | she, her, hers | he, him, his Your Title | Your Department Simon Fraser University | Your Building Location 8888 University Dr., Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 T: 604 123 4567 | M: 604 123 4567 | website Facebook | Twitter", "Your Name:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: bold Color: black", "Your Title | Your Department:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: normal Color: black", "Location and Contact Information:\n\nFont: Arial (PC) or Helvetica (Mac) Font size: 10pt Font weight: normal Color: black Use | to separate items", "Social Media:\n\nSocial media addresses should be hyperlinked to their respective platform name, not the social media handle name Delete social media names that are not needed For more information regarding SFU email signatures and branding, see Communicators Toolkit - Email Signature . Overview This article describes how to set up your signature for SFU Mail on Outlook for PC. Create your email signature in Outlook Select your default signature for new messages and replies/forwards Create your signature using an official SFU template Create your email signature in Outlook Create your email signature in Outlook Select your default signature for new messages and replies/forwards Select your default signature for new messages and replies/forwards Create your signature using an official SFU template Create your signature using an official SFU template", "Overview This article explains how to access email templates on Outlook on the web for SFU Mail. It is intended for individuals who have been migrated or are already using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience. Accessing your email templates Creating your email templates Inserting your email templates Editing or deleting your templates Pinning the My Templates app Details Accessing your email templates After signing into your SFU mailbox on outlook.office.com , Start a new email message In the ribbon, select Apps Select My Templates By default, Outlook includes three templates that you can use and edit Creating your own email templates Select + Templates Enter a title and message. Then click Save Inserting your email templates Click the email template to insert it into the body of your message: Editing or Deleting your email templates To edit or delete an existing template, place your cursor over the template to reveal the Delete and Edit options. Pinning the My Templates app If you use email templates frequently, you may wish to pin the app for quick access: Start a new message and open Apps Right click My Templates and select Pin The My Templates app will be pinned to the message ribbon for easy access Overview This article explains how to access email templates on Outlook on the web for SFU Mail. It is intended for individuals who have been migrated or are already using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience. Accessing your email templates Creating your email templates Inserting your email templates Editing or deleting your templates Pinning the My Templates app Accessing your email templates Accessing your email templates Creating your email templates Creating your email templates Inserting your email templates Inserting your email templates Editing or deleting your templates Editing or deleting your", "your email templates Inserting your email templates Editing or deleting your templates Pinning the My Templates app Accessing your email templates Accessing your email templates Creating your email templates Creating your email templates Inserting your email templates Inserting your email templates Editing or deleting your templates Editing or deleting your templates Pinning the My Templates app Pinning the My Templates app", "Software and Application Distribution Copilot and not other AI services such as Microsoft 365 Copilot . What's included in this article? What is Copilot Chat with Data Protection? How do I access Copilot Chat? How do I get started using Copilot Chat? What is Copilot Chat? Copilot Chat is a general purpose AI companion within the Microsoft 365 platform that is available to faculty, staff, and students. Unlike public general purpose AI companions (such as ChatGPT, Bard...etc), Copilot Chat includes enterprise data protection to ensure that any questions you ask or data you work with remains with the university and isn't used elsewhere.", "With Copilot Chat:\n\nYour chat data is encrypted during your conversations and isn't viewable by Microsoft or anyone else. The model Copilot Chat uses will not retain any data about your conversation at the end of your session. Your conversations remain secure in the SFU Microsoft 365 space. Your chat data isn't used to further train the underlying large language model as it would be with public AI companions. Your SFU user profile is used to sign-in but will be anonymous during your session. For more information about the privacy and protections available to the enterprise version of Microsoft Copilot see: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/copilot/privacy-and-protections How do I access Microsoft Copilot? You can access Copilot Chat by signing in to your SFU Microsoft 365 work/school account at microsoft365.com/chat . Sign in to Copilot Chat How do I get started using Copilot Chat? Introduction to Copilot at SFU Looking for SFU specific advice on using Copilot, or just getting started with generative AI overall? Jump into the SFU Copilot Introduction course on Canvas to learn about prompting, instructions, responsible AI, and more! Introduction to Copilot at SFU Microsoft Support If you're looking to get hands-on with Copilot Chat, the Microsoft 365 Copilot Help & Learning page is your go-to resource to bookmark. It\u2019s full of quick-start guides, video tutorials, and practical tips to help you use Copilot effectively. You\u2019ll find walkthroughs for creating content, automating tasks, and crafting better prompts. Whether you're just getting started or want to sharpen your skills, this site makes it easy to learn at your own pace and apply Copilot to your everyday work. Copilot Support Copilot Academy Learning Paths Microsoft 365 Copilot Academy is a learning platform for how to get the most out of Copilot. Whether you're just getting started or looking to deepen your skills, the Academy offers a", "With Copilot Chat:\n\nlearn at your own pace and apply Copilot to your everyday work. Copilot Support Copilot Academy Learning Paths Microsoft 365 Copilot Academy is a learning platform for how to get the most out of Copilot. Whether you're just getting started or looking to deepen your skills, the Academy offers a curated collection of on-demand learning paths, videos, and interactive resources designed to help you work smarter with AI-powered tools.", "Learn at your own pace, exploring topics on:\n\nHow to use Copilot in everyday workflows Best practices for prompting and productivity Real-world scenarios and demos Tips for staying secure and responsible with AI Copilot Academy Related Articles (4) Additional Learning Resources for Copilot Resources and learning paths that can help you get started with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Copilot Agents Explore how to use Copilot Agents to expand and tailor your experience within Microsoft Copilot. Introduction to Prompts in Copilot Get familiar with the basics of constructing good prompts and learn about a few prompt engineering techniques so you get the most out of your questions to Copilot. Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn more about Microsoft 365 Copilot (a personalized productivity AI assistant) at SFU.", "Overview This article explains how to share, open, and remove shared folders from the web version of Outlook. It is intended for individuals who are using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience. If you're using the previous version of SFU Mail, please see Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook on the Web . Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting", "Known Limitations:\n\nShares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online Owners can only share folder permissions with other individuals in the same environment. For example, if the owner is using SFU Mail with Exchange Online, they can only share their folders with other individuals who are also using SFU Mail with Exchange Online. Not sure which version of SFU Mail you're using? See the \"How do I know if I've been migrated?\" section in We're Upgrading SFU Mail . Details Sharing a folder in Outlook as the owner To share a mailbox folder, you'll need to do the following in sequence: Grant sharing permissions for your top-level mailbox Grant sharing permissions to your mailbox folder(s) Granting sharing permissions for your top-level mailbox In the Home view of your mailbox, right click Folders and select Sharing and permissions . Select + to grant a new individual access. Enter the name or email address of the individual you'd like to grant access to. Then click Add . Grant them Reviewer permissions to give them read-only permissions. Granting sharing permissions for your mailbox folder(s) The process to grant sharing permissions for your mailbox folders is the same as your mailbox: Right click the folder you want to share and select Sharing and permissions . Select + to grant a new individual access Enter the name or email address of the individual you'd like to grant access to. Then click Add . When granting permissions to this folder, you may want to give them the following permissions or higher: Reviewer : reviewers can read your messages Nonediting Author : nonediting authors can read your messages and drop messages into a folder If the folder is a subfolder, repeat steps 1-4 for each folder the", "Known Limitations:\n\npermissions to this folder, you may want to give them the following permissions or higher: Reviewer : reviewers can read your messages Nonediting Author : nonediting authors can read your messages and drop messages into a folder If the folder is a subfolder, repeat steps 1-4 for each folder the subfolder is nested in. For a list of permissions levels and the corresponding actions a shared user can take, see Microsoft's article Options for sharing and delegating which is applicable to web and Outlook for Windows and Mac. Opening a mailbox folder that's been shared with you Right-click Folders and select Add shared folder or mailbox . Search for and select the user who has shared folders with you, then click Add . Their mailbox and shared folder will appear under your Folders list. Removing a shared mailbox folder To remove a shared mailbox folder, right-click the user who shared their folder with you and select Removed shared folder . Troubleshooting Error message Cause Try the following Can't complete your request: You might not have permission to perform this action. Recipient has not been granted the appropriate permissions at the folder or mailbox level to access the folder Permissions have not yet had a chance to synchronize to the client Have the owner double check their mailbox and shared folder permissions Refresh your browser or sync your mail (View > Sync) Overview This article explains how to share, open, and remove shared folders from the web version of Outlook. It is intended for individuals who are using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience. If you're using the previous version of SFU Mail, please see Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook on the Web . Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook on the Web Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Open and add", "Known Limitations:\n\nis intended for individuals who are using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience. If you're using the previous version of SFU Mail, please see Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook on the Web . Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook on the Web Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Share your mailbox and mailbox folders Open and add a shared mailbox folder Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting Troubleshooting", "Known Limitations:\n\nShares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted.", "Known Limitations:\n\nShares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. Shares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online Owners can only share folder permissions with other individuals in the same environment. For example, if the owner is using SFU Mail with Exchange Online, they can only share their folders with other individuals who are also using SFU Mail with Exchange Online. Not sure which version of SFU Mail you're using? See the \"How do I know if I've been migrated?\" section in We're Upgrading SFU Mail . SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online We're Upgrading SFU Mail", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "OVERVIEW\n\nIT Services has made annual upgrade to macOS available to SFU - macOS 14 Sonoma Upgrades are a full integer release (eg. macOS 13.x to 14.x) and are made available every fall by Apple Upgrades are done in Managed Software Center", "ENVIRONMENT\n\n25GB of free disk space required to install Make sure your mac is connected to AC power Wired connection is recommended -", "VPN\n\nis not required Please close your applications, web sessions, documents, etc.", "DETAILS\n\nStep 1 - Download the Installer Launch Managed Software Center application Go to at the left pane Search for \" macOS Sonoma Installer \" Click Install - the download could take a while but will run in the background while you work Step 2 - Install the Upgrade Installation will take up to 60 minutes to complete We recommend upgrading during your lunch break or at the end of the work day Go to Updates at the left pane, then click", "UPDATE\n\nto trigger the process", "Note:\n\nthe same user who initiates the upgrade must login with their password when the upgrade is complete Your computer will automatically restart Your screen will go black with the Apple logo and your computer may restart a couple more times If you see the login screen below then your upgrade was successful Enter your password to complete the process Related Articles (1) macOS Update Instructions How to do regular maintenance updates for macOS and Apple applications.", "Administrative and Business Student Information Systems Overview goSFU is the information management system available to SFU students, faculty, and staff 24/7. All SFU students are able to access goSFU for course registration, viewing grades, tracking degree progress, ordering transcripts, and applying for graduation. For faculty and staff, access to goSFU is provided for the purpose of performing administrative and advising duties. Access Categories Select any of the following headers to see how you can access goSFU ( http://go.sfu.ca/", "):\n\nStudents/Alumni Access to the Student Centre (goSFU) is provided for students and alumni to enroll in classes, view grades, track academic progress, order transcripts, apply for graduation, and much more. You must have an active SFU Computing ID to access goSFU. See the timeline for receiving your SFU Computing ID . If your SFU Computing ID has not been activated yet, activate it now . If you are an SFU alumnus who graduated before 2009, you may need to reactivate your SFU account to access goSFU. Undergraduate Applicants Access to goSFU is provided for applicants to check and update their application, self-report grades, and pay admission fees. You must have already applied to SFU. See next steps. Sign in to goSFU as an applicant at https://applicant.sfu.ca , with your 9-digit SFU student number and temporary password. Forgot your SFU student number or temporary password? Connect with Registrar and Information Services for support. See the hours of operation and directions for in-person assistance at any of our three campuses. Faculty Access to the Faculty Centre (goSFU) is provided for instructors to check class schedules, view class rosters, assign final grades to students, and submit or approve grade change requests. Instructors will obtain access to goSFU automatically once their teaching appointment has been entered into the system. Access to goSFU will be provided for as long as the instructor has an active teaching appointment at SFU. You must have an active SFU Computing ID to access goSFU. If your SFU Computing ID has not been activated yet, activate it now . Access to your Faculty Centre is tied to your SFU Computing ID; role accounts cannot be used. Staff Access to goSFU is provided upon request to staff members for the purpose of performing administrative and advising duties. You must have an", "):\n\nhas not been activated yet, activate it now . Access to your Faculty Centre is tied to your SFU Computing ID; role accounts cannot be used. Staff Access to goSFU is provided upon request to staff members for the purpose of performing administrative and advising duties. You must have an active SFU Computing ID to access goSFU. If your SFU Computing ID has not been activated yet, activate it now . Request staff access to goSFU Request for access via the goSFU Access Form . You must be in a temporary or continuing position at SFU. The purpose of your goSFU access request must be related to your position at SFU. Authorization from your Department and the Registrar is required. Access cannot be granted to role accounts. Fraser International College (FIC) Students Students who attend and are currently enrolled in classes at Fraser International College (FIC) are able to access goSFU to pay residence fees. You must have an active SFU Computing ID to access goSFU. If your SFU Computing ID has not been activated yet, activate it now . Check if your SFU Computing ID is still active. Your SFU Computing ID may become deactivated if you do not enroll in classes for at least one term at FIC. Applied to SFU? Sign in to goSFU as an undergraduate applicant at https://applicant.sfu.ca with your 9-digit SFU student number and temporary password.", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "OVERVIEW\n\nHow to do regular maintenance updates for macOS and Apple applications. Updates are a decimal release (eg. macOS 13.5.7 to 13.6) and are made available on a regular basis from Apple", "ENVIRONMENT\n\n25GB of free disk space required to install Make sure your mac is connected to AC power Wired connection is recommended -", "VPN\n\nis not required Please close your applications, web sessions, documents, etc.", "DETAILS\n\nNudge Notification If you see the below notification, clicking on Update Device will take you directly to Software Update as shown below. macOS 14 Sonoma update instructions Open System Settings Click on Software Update Available Choose Update Tonight or Restart Now Installation will take up to 60 minutes to complete macOS 13 Ventura (and older) update instructions Open System Settings Click on Software Update Choose More Info... Note: installing an", "UPGRADE\n\nthis way requires admin password Choose the updates you want Choose Install Now Installation will take up to 60 minutes to complete Related Articles (1) macOS Upgrade Instructions How to do the annual major OS upgrade via Managed Software Centre.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Copilot Frequently Asked Questions & Known Issues What is Microsoft 365 Copilot? Microsoft 365 Copilot is a conversational AI companion integrated with Microsoft 365 apps and services (such Word, Excel, Outlook, OneDrive and more).", "For more information about Microsoft 365 Copilot, visit:\n\nhttps://copilot.cloud.microsoft Microsoft 365 Copilot is only available to faculty and staff at SFU. Students can access the non-365 version of Microsoft Copilot here . Microsoft 365 Copilot is an added service. Your department or unit will need to request and fund a Microsoft 365 Copilot license for you to use at SFU. Purchasing Additional Microsoft Services at SFU Frequently Asked Questions & Known Issues Can I use Microsoft 365 Copilot with my sponsored/role account? No, Microsoft 365 Copilot uses a 1:1 user based licensing plan. Due to the potential shared nature of sponsored/role accounts they can violate these licensing terms, and subsequently section 5.3.4 of SFU's GP-24 policy . My Office apps aren't showing Microsoft 365 Copilot. Microsoft 365 Copilot requires that you sign into Office apps (such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint...etc) with your Microsoft 365 account at SFU to work. If you have a device managed by the university, it may come with a version of Office apps that do not require a sign-in (often called \"device based licensing\") which will prevent you from using Microsoft 365 Copilot in those apps. Check with your IT team if they can switch to the sign-in version of Office apps or let you install the Microsoft 365 versions . Microsoft 365 Copilot isn't showing in the web version of Office apps. Depending on your preferred web browser, it may be blocking Copilot. Double-check that any browser add-ins aren't blocking Copilot and that your web browser has third-party cookies enabled. Related Articles (6) Additional Learning Resources for Copilot Resources and learning paths that can help you get started with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Approved AI tools at SFU Information about, and guidance on the use of, the approved AI tools at SFU. Copilot Agents Explore how to use Copilot Agents to expand and tailor", "For more information about Microsoft 365 Copilot, visit:\n\nAdditional Learning Resources for Copilot Resources and learning paths that can help you get started with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Approved AI tools at SFU Information about, and guidance on the use of, the approved AI tools at SFU. Copilot Agents Explore how to use Copilot Agents to expand and tailor your experience within Microsoft Copilot. Copilot Chat Learn about Copilot Chat, a generative AI assistant on the Microsoft 365 platform that is available to everyone at SFU. Introduction to Prompts in Copilot Get familiar with the basics of constructing good prompts and learn about a few prompt engineering techniques so you get the most out of your questions to Copilot. Privacy and Security Guidance for using Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn about privacy and security guidance for using Copilot at SFU.", "OVERVIEW\n\nAddresses a prevalence of issues related to macOS Sonoma suddenly halting printing on non-AD bound machines.", "DETAILS\n\nTo resolve this recurring issue, I recommend starting anew by initiating a \"Reset Printing\" process. This comprehensive step removes ALL printers and queues. Along with clearing all Keychain entries associated with printing, ensure that the PaperCut client is installed and operational. Follow the provided instructions diligently. When specifying the URL for the queue, make the following adjustment: Change: smb://sfuprint-p.mps.sfu.ca/SFU_Print_non_AD_auth To: smb://sfuprint-p.mps.sfu.ca/SFU_Print_non_AD_auth?encryption=no This adjustment should help mitigate the printing interruptions experienced previously. It is one continuous line, without breaks. After adding the printer, you can perform a test print, and the printer authentication prompt should appear. I utilized \"ADSFU\\<username>\" and encountered no issues. Next is Papercut authentication and finally, information that our job is waiting for us in papercut queue Hope this helps.", "Overview This article explains how to sign into the Gmail app for Android with your SFU Mail account.", "Note:\n\nGmail for iOS is not available as it currently does not support Modern Authentication (OAuth2). You will see \"Incorrect username or password\" when attempting to sign into Gmail on iOS until the vendor implements support. Details To add your SFU account as a secondary mailbox on the Gmail app: Open the Gmail app on your Android device Tap your profile picture in the top right. Tap Add another account Choose Exchange and Office 365 Enter your SFU email address. Then tap Next. Enter your SFU Computing ID and password. Then tap . Enter your MFA code if prompted. Then tap Submit . You may be asked to trust sfu.ca. Tap Continue . Your SFU Mail account should be added. Tap Done . To access your newly added SFU mailbox, tap your profile picture and select your SFU account. Congratulations! You've successfully set up your SFU Mail account on the Gmail app. Overview This article explains how to sign into the Gmail app for Android with your SFU Mail account.", "Note:\n\nGmail for iOS is not available as it currently does not support Modern Authentication (OAuth2). You will see \"Incorrect username or password\" when attempting to sign into Gmail on iOS until the vendor implements support.", "Note:\n\nGmail for iOS is not available as it currently does not support Modern Authentication (OAuth2). You will see \"Incorrect username or password\" when attempting to sign into Gmail on iOS until the vendor implements support.", "Overview In alignment with What\u2019s Next: The SFU Strategy and SFU\u2019s digital transformation goals , SFU IT Services is strengthening cybersecurity and protecting our research, academic and business data. As part of these changes, all third-party/external tools and applications that connect to SFU Mail must now be assessed for security and privacy and be approved by IT Services. Changes starting Summer 2024 SFU Mail will only connect to third-party apps/tools that are approved by IT Services for SFU\u2019s teaching-, research-, or business-critical activities, and are secure and compliant with provincial privacy regulations. Existing connections between SFU Mail and non-approved external tools/applications will stop working. The exact timing will coincide with the migration of your SFU mailbox to SFU\u2019s new upgraded email system, Exchange Online . You will receive an email notification in advance of this migration. Who does this affect? Any member of the SFU community (faculty, staff, researcher, student, sponsored/role account, etc.) using non-approved external tools or applications that connect to SFU Mail for email or calendar-related activities. For instance, any tools/applications that connect to your SFU Mail account for activities like: Event or meeting booking (e.g. Calendly, Doodle AG) Project coordination (e.g. Asana) Productivity tools (e.g. Notability) Contact management tools (e.g. HubSpot) Email add-ins/plug-ins Email clients (desktop or mobile applications) Any other connections that sync with or change your SFU Mail inbox/calendar or Exchange contacts Not sure if this affects you? Do a self-check to see if this impacts you (1-3 min.) Next Steps To ensure minimal disruptions to your workflows, take one of the following actions: Review to see if your tool/application is already on SFU\u2019s list of approved external tools and applications . If it is, you do not need to take any further action. Your SFU Mail connections will continue to work.", "OR\n\nDiscontinue using the third-party application/tool and switch to an SFU-approved tool/application or find an alternative way to get your work done without connecting SFU Mail to the unapproved app/tool.", "OR\n\nRequest IT Services approval to connect your external/tool to SFU Mail. Complete and submit this request form to initiate a request with IT Services. ( Note : Only for tools that are critical for research, learning, or other university business needs. Not applicable to tools used for individual preferences.) Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Why is SFU updating its IT standards? As technology evolves, it is crucial to continuously assess and adjust our IT standards in an evolving cybersecurity landscape. The updates to SFU IT standards are aligned with What\u2019s Next: The SFU Strategy and SFU\u2019s digital transformation goals , and are designed to enhanced cybersecurity measures and protect research, academic, and business data across the university. SFU is upgrading our email system to Exchange Online for better features and stronger security. As part of this change, every third-party application that connects to SFU Mail is considered a \u201csystem integration\u201d. According to provincial requirements and the new IT standards, each of these integrations requires a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) and a Security Assessment. What are the key changes starting Summer 2024? Starting in the Summer of 2024, SFU Mail will only connect with third-party apps/tools that have received a PIA and Security Assessment and have been approved for use in SFU's business, teaching, or research-critical activities. Any existing connections between SFU Mail and non-approved external tools/applications will stop working when your SFU Mail account is migrated to Exchange Online. Who will be affected by these changes? The changes will impact any member of the SFU community (e.g. staff, faculty, researchers, students, sponsored/role accounts, etc.) who currently use a third-party/external tool or application that connects to their SFU Mail for email or calendar-related activities. This includes, but is not limited to, tools and applications that access your SFU Mail information: Event or", "OR\n\nmember of the SFU community (e.g. staff, faculty, researchers, students, sponsored/role accounts, etc.) who currently use a third-party/external tool or application that connects to their SFU Mail for email or calendar-related activities. This includes, but is not limited to, tools and applications that access your SFU Mail information: Event or meeting booking (e.g. Calendly, Doodle AG) Project coordination (e.g. Asana) Productivity tools (e.g. Notability) Contact management tools (e.g. HubSpot) Email plug-ins/add-ins Email clients (desktop or mobile applications) Any other connections that sync with or change your SFU Mail inbox/calendar or Exchange contacts Not sure if this affects you? Do a self-check to see if this impacts you (1-3 min.) Which third-party tools or applications can be requested for approval? Any external tool or application that is critical for SFU\u2019s teaching, research, or general business functions can be requested for approval. For example: An application that sends emails using an SFU email account. Software that connects to your advising team\u2019s mailboxes to manage appointment bookings, used for coordinating student advising. External tools or apps that will not be considered for approval (or for delay to SFU Mail migration) are typically used for personal preferences. For example: A calendar app on your phone is used for convenience to view all your SFU Mail calendar information A personal productivity tool that organizes and schedules tasks/events on your SFU Mail calendar How do I know if an external tool/application is approved for university use? Visit our webpage on Integrations with Microsoft 365 to view approved applications. If your external tool/app is not listed on that webpage, it hasn\u2019t been approved and will not work with SFU Mail on Exchange Online. What is the approval process? To have a third-party tool or application approved to integrate with SFU Mail, it should be critical for the", "OR\n\napproved applications. If your external tool/app is not listed on that webpage, it hasn\u2019t been approved and will not work with SFU Mail on Exchange Online. What is the approval process? To have a third-party tool or application approved to integrate with SFU Mail, it should be critical for the university\u2019s teaching, research, or business operations . This process does not apply to tools chosen based on personal preference. To request approval to use an email client (desktop or mobile): Submit a request to IT Services . A Security Assessment will be needed to determine if your Email Client can be approved. IT Services will provide further information after you submit your request.", "To request approval for a connection to a third-party app/tool:\n\nSubmit a request to IT Services . This will initiate a review with IT Services, and you will be contacted with more information.", "If your request proceeds, you will need to either:\n\nUpdate an existing Privacy Impact Assessment and Security Assessment for compatibility with Exchange Online. Initiate a new Privacy Impact Assessment and Security Assessment through Archives and Records Management. The time required varies; typically, it ranges from 1-6 months, but could be longer due to high demand in Summer 2024. After your Privacy Impact Assessment and Security Assessments are complete, submit your app/tool integration request to IT Services . Looking for FAQs on SFU Mail Upgrade? See Migration FAQs and Common Issues . Looking for support? Send a support ticket using the SFU Mail - Report Migration Issue form.", "IT Professional Services IT Service Delivery and Support", "OVERVIEW\n\nIT support for faculties operating their own IT Support group. Includes design and maintenance of the capabilities, tools, and service points needed to deliver IT services or provide end-user support.", "FACULTY OF APPLIED SCIENCE (FAS)\n\nThe Faculty of Applied Sciences (FAS) IT team provides technical support to the School of Engineering Science, School of Sustainable Energy Engineering, Mechatronic Systems Engineering, and Dean\u2019s Office. We maintain the teaching labs and support research labs in these schools. We also provide technical support to FAS faculty, staff, students, and visitors with their computing needs. FAS IT Support School of Computing Science The School of Computing Science is supported by the CS technical support team . We maintain the Computing Science Instructional Labs (CSIL) including the", "MPCS\n\nlabs as well as supporting CS research labs , faculty , staff , students, and visitors with their computing needs. Some services used by members of our school are supported by SFU IT Services, most of which can be found in the SFU service catalogue . If you are not sure who provides support for your problem, submit a request to Computing Science technical support here, and we will point you in the right direction if we can't help you ourselves. Provide what details you can in order to assist us in addressing the issue more efficiently. Computing Science IT Support", "FACULTY OF ARTS AND SOCIAL SCIENCES (FASS)\n\nThe Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences Information Systems (FASS IS) team provides technical support to staff, faculty and graduate students in all departments, schools, and programs in the faculty. We maintain and support computing in teaching labs, research labs, departmental classrooms, meeting rooms, offices, and support users working remotely. We also provide technical support to visitors & guests, and audio-visual assistance for special events. If you\u2019re a member of the FASS community, you can find more information about FASS IS here: https://www.sfu.ca/fass/faculty-staff/portal/is-tracs.html (login required) Contact the FASS IS team via the Request Service button on this page (preferred), or email fasshelp@sfu.ca with details about technical issues you are experiencing, or services you would like to request. We will provide timely assistance or direct your request to the appropriate IT team if we can\u2019t solve your issue ourselves. FASS IS Support", "FACULTY OF ENVIRONMENT (FENV)\n\nThe Faculty of Environment team provides technical support to staff, faculty and students within the Faculty of Environment. We maintain the teaching labs and support research labs in these schools. We also provide technical support to Faculty of Environment faculty, staff, students, and visitors with their computing needs. FENV IT Support", "FACULTY OF SCIENCE\n\nThe Faculty of Science team provides technical support to staff, faculty and students of the Faculty of Science. We maintain the teaching labs and support research labs in these schools. We also provide technical support to Faculty of Science faculty, staff, students, and visitors with their computing needs. Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry (MBB) The Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry (MBB) IT team provide technical support to staff, faculty and students of the department. MBB IT Support Related Services / Offerings (4) Faculty of Applied Sciences (FAS) Faculty of Applied Science IT Support Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS) Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences IT Support Faculty of Environment (FENV) Faculty of Environment IT Support Faculty of Science Faculty of Science IT Support", "How-To Guides Overview This article describes how to preserve your email messages as you graduate or transition away from studying or working at the university. What happens to my emails after leaving SFU? Why use Mozilla Thunderbird?", "PART B: Copy your SFU Mail messages to another location\n\nTroubleshooting Tips What happens to my emails after leaving SFU? If you are a student (includes Alumni), staff, or faculty member leaving SFU for any reason other than retirement, your SFU Computing account will be converted into an SFU Limited Access ID account one year after your last active term (student) or end date (staff/faculty). Consequently, your SFU Mail account will be destroyed and its contents will no longer be recoverable. IT Services will send an email reminder 90 days, 45 days and 30 days prior to contents being removed. Setup instructions have been provided for the Thunderbird email client which is available for free on Windows, Mac, and Linux. How many emails do you have? If you have a small number of emails you'd like to keep, consider manually forwarding them to your personal email. We also recommend cleaning up your inbox to reduce the number of items that need to be downloaded and transferred over. Why use Mozilla Thunderbird? Mozilla Thunderbird is a free, open-source application that is available to everyone on Windows, Mac and Linux. Other applications, such as Outlook, may require licensing that may no longer be available after leaving the university. If you still have access to Outlook for Desktop and more comfortable with Outlook, consider visiting Microsoft Support on Export emails, contacts, and calendar items to preserve email content. Alternatively, if you have a preference on using another email application, you can transfer or export your email messages using any of the approved email applications within the grace period.", "PART A. Install Thunderbird and sync your SFU Mail\n\nSTEP 1. Install Thunderbird Visit the Thunderbird website to download the latest version of the Thunderbird email client for your computer. STEP 2. Setup SFU Mail on Thunderbird To set up your SFU Mail account on Thunderbird, see our guide for signing into Thunderbird . Once all folders are populated, they will continue to sync with your SFU Mail account as messages are sent, received or moved. There is a progress bar at the bottom of the window to indicate how many messages are being downloaded from the email server. If you don't see all your folders, see our troubleshooting tips . Depending on your internet connection and the number of messages you have, the download process can take upwards of several hours. Allow the downloading of messages to be fully complete before proceeding to the next step.", "PART B: Copy your SFU Mail messages to another location\n\nSTEP 3. Determine if you want to copy your messages to another platform or save them locally on your computer After setting up your SFU account on Thunderbird and downloading all your messages, you'll need to determine where you'd like to save a copy of your messages for future access: On another email platform, such as Gmail Locally on your computer, in the Local Folders mailbox in Thunderbird Copying your messages to another email has the benefit of allowing you to access these messages on your preferred platform. However, it can take a significant amount of time for the third-party email server to complete the transfer process. Looking for resources to setup your personal email account on Thunderbird? Thunderbird uses IMAP to connect to other email providers. Here are some resources from popular email providers:", "Gmail:\n\nhttps://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/thunderbird-and-gmail", "Outlook:\n\nhttps://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/set-up-email-in-mozilla-thunderbird-8-0-f4726a9e-64d3-4494-9260-5762597fd1a6", "Apple Mail (iCloud):\n\nhttps://support.apple.com/en-us/102525 Copying your messages to the local mailbox on Thunderbird can be done more quickly. However, you'll only be able to access these messages locally on the computer you completed the setup with. STEP 4. Save a copy of your messages We recommend creating a new folder on your third-party email platform or local folders mailbox (right click \"Local Folders\" > New Folder...) to copy your messages over. Then use the copy function (right click > Copy to > mailbox folder name ) to copy messages or folders over to the other mailbox. After transferring your messages, you may wish to keep Thunderbird installed until your mailbox expires. FIPPA Considerations for Staff and Faculty Members Depending on the content within your SFU email messages, the storage of those messages on external email servers hosted outside of Canada can be a potential violation of BC FIPPA. Should you wish to migrate messages from your SFU email account, transfer them to the Local Folders mailbox within Thunderbird. For more information on BC FIPPA, visit https://www.sfu.ca/archives/foipop.html Troubleshooting Tips If the folders are still not showing, try collapsing and expanding the list using the \"arrow\" beside the account name (e.g., \"demo1@sfu.ca\"). When the arrow is clicked again to expand the list, your folders should now be displayed. Note that the folder contents may still be in the process of being transferred, and you may need to click on each folder to ensure that the transfer is still being carried out. If you have completed the above and are still not seeing your folders show,", "you may need to subscribe to the mailboxes:\n\nClick the Settings icon and navigate to Preferences > Account Settings . Select Synchronization & Storage and click the Advanced... button. Click the arrow beside the account name to expand the list of folders. You will also see a Download column with dots (not downloaded) and checkmarks (downloaded). If needed, click the dots under the Download column for the folders you wish to download. Once done, click", "OK\n\n. Those folders should now show up under your account in the Mailbox screen.", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Copilot Ready to learn more about Copilot? See our highlighted resources for events, courses, and online resources. What's included? Learn More and Stay Updated about Copilot Microsoft Support Learning Paths at Copilot Academy Online Events SFU Online Courses Frequently Asked Questions Learn More and Stay Updated about Copilot If you're looking to get hands-on with Copilot Chat & Microsoft 365 Copilot, the Microsoft 365 Copilot Support page is your go-to resource to bookmark. It\u2019s full of quick-start guides, video tutorials, and practical tips to help you use Copilot effectively. You\u2019ll find walkthroughs for creating content, automating tasks, and crafting better prompts. Whether you're just getting started or want to sharpen your skills, this site makes it easy to learn at your own pace and apply Copilot to your everyday work. Microsoft Support One of the best ways to get started with Copilot is by trying it out! We encourage you to visit Microsoft's online resource for all things Copilot to try out interactive examples, videos and other content to quickly get started. Copilot Support Learning Paths at Copilot Academy Microsoft 365 Copilot Academy is a learning platform for how to get the most out of Copilot. Whether you're just getting started or looking to deepen your skills, the Academy offers a curated collection of on-demand learning paths, videos, and interactive resources designed to help you work smarter with AI-powered tools.", "Learn at your own pace, exploring topics on:\n\nHow to use Copilot in everyday workflows Best practices for prompting and productivity Real-world scenarios and demos Tips for staying secure and responsible with AI Microsoft Copilot Academy Online Events Whether you're just starting with Copilot or looking to deepen your expertise, the events website for Microsoft offers a rich catalog of free, on-demand training sessions tailored to a wide range of roles\u2014from IT and HR to marketing, finance, and executive leadership. These sessions feature expert-led demos, real-world use cases, and practical guidance to help you unlock the full potential of Copilot\u2019s AI capabilities. You can learn at your own pace, discover how Copilot integrates with your daily workflows, and gain actionable insights to boost productivity and innovation. Attend Learning Events SFU Online Courses Just getting started with Copilot Chat and Microsoft 365 Copilot at SFU? Check out our SFU specific courses that brings together all our overviews and in a 30 minute course. Copilot Chat Introduction to Copilot Frequently asked questions I don't see Microsoft 365 Copilot in the desktop versions of my Office apps (such as Word, Excel, Outlook...etc). Microsoft 365 Copilot relies on the latest versions of Office apps (Word, Excel, Outlook...etc) to work correctly. To download the latest version visit your Microsoft 365 account at SFU via the Microsoft 365 portal . If your device is also managed by your IT team at SFU (and you cannot install the latest versions yourself), ensure they have installed the Microsoft 365 version of Office apps and not older versions (such as Office 2019/2022). I just got access to Microsoft 365 Copilot but don't see it. How Long does it take to become available? Microsoft 365 Copilot should become available immediately on the web version of Microsoft 365 apps (such as Word Online, Excel Online...etc) after it's been assigned", "Learn at your own pace, exploring topics on:\n\nversions (such as Office 2019/2022). I just got access to Microsoft 365 Copilot but don't see it. How Long does it take to become available? Microsoft 365 Copilot should become available immediately on the web version of Microsoft 365 apps (such as Word Online, Excel Online...etc) after it's been assigned to your SFU account. However, it may take up to a day for it to become available in the desktop versions or apps. If you don't see it appear within those time frames, sign-out, fully close each app, and then sign back in. Related Articles (6) Copilot Agents Explore how to use Copilot Agents to expand and tailor your experience within Microsoft Copilot. Copilot Chat Learn about Copilot Chat, a generative AI assistant on the Microsoft 365 platform that is available to everyone at SFU. Getting Started with Microsoft 365 How to sign up and get started with Microsoft 365 apps. Introduction to Prompts in Copilot Get familiar with the basics of constructing good prompts and learn about a few prompt engineering techniques so you get the most out of your questions to Copilot. Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn more about Microsoft 365 Copilot (a personalized productivity AI assistant) at SFU. Privacy and Security Guidance for using Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn about privacy and security guidance for using Copilot at SFU.", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management For Ticketing Agents", "OVERVIEW\n\nA list of ticket categories and their associated ticket type.", "DETAILS\n\nAcademic Department IT Support Faculty of Applied Science (FAS) Academic Department IT Support Faculty of Communications Arts and Technology (FCAT) Academic Department IT Support Faculty of Education (EDUC) Academic Department IT Support Faculty of Environment (FENV) Academic Department IT Support Faculty of Health Sciences (FHS) Academic Department IT Support Faculty of Science (SCI) Academic Department IT Support Faculty of Social Science (FASS) Administrative and Business Alumni and Advancement Administrative and Business Auxiliary Systems Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Administrative and Business Data, Reporting and Analytics Administrative and Business Enterprise Application SRS Support Administrative and Business Facilities Services Administrative and Business Faculty Information Systems Administrative and Business Financial and Procurement Systems Administrative and Business Graduate and Postdoctoral Systems Administrative and Business Human Resource Systems Administrative and Business Medical and Health Systems Administrative and Business Polling and Surveys Administrative and Business Residence and Housing Administrative and Business Safety and Risk Services Administrative and Business Student Information Systems A/V and Media Mass Communications and Emergency Notifications Web Services Desktop Support Hardware Lifecycle Services Managed Devices Software and Application Distribution Information Security Identity and Access Management Information Security Photo Identification Information Security Secure Computing Information Security Security Consulting and Education Information Security Security Policy and Compliance Infrastructure Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Infrastructure Data Centre Services Infrastructure Database Management Infrastructure Integration Services Infrastructure Monitoring and Alert Management Infrastructure Network and Connectivity Management Infrastructure Server and Storage Management Infrastructure Server and Storage Management (2) IT Professional Services Infrastructure Administration IT Professional Services IT Communications and Documentation IT Professional Services IT Service Delivery and Support IT Professional Services ITS Ticket General IT Professional Services Project Management Support Research Institutional Research and Planning Research Research Administration Systems Research Research Computing Teaching and Learning Academic Technology and Support Teaching and Learning Learning Management Teaching and", "DETAILS\n\nIT Communications and Documentation IT Professional Services IT Service Delivery and Support IT Professional Services ITS Ticket General IT Professional Services Project Management Support Research Institutional Research and Planning Research Research Administration Systems Research Research Computing Teaching and Learning Academic Technology and Support Teaching and Learning Learning Management Teaching and Learning Lecture Capture", "Hardware Lifecycle Services Asset Management Standard Device Acquisition", "OVERVIEW\n\nComputer hardware available to order for yourself or an identified user. Selections are categorized into two categories ( Everyday or Task-Intensive computing) and two device profiles (Laptop or Desktop ) .", "Dimensions to consider when selecting hardware should include:\n\nPortability Space Efficiency Requirements for Remote Work Performance Ergonomics Cost Efficiency We recommend selecting a device profile that best suits the work persona of the user as laid out in the Hybrid Work Program framework. Laptops are preferred for team members whose persona includes remote work provisions. Order Computer", "NOTE:\n\nThis page outlines SFU\u2019s standard computing device options. Please note that your unit may have additional rules regarding device orders. IT Services is aware of the following: VPFA Staff (all units within VPFA) : Only Windows devices can be ordered as standard. If VPFA staff wish to order Mac devices, they must submit an exception request through the Custom Device Ordering process. Everyday Laptops and Desktops Everyday devices are designed for the needs of the majority of users who engage in typical computing tasks like document editing, email, web browsing and general productivity software. Everyday devices are generally more budget-friendly compared to Task-Intensive, making them accessible to a wider range of users. Everyday Laptops The best devices for most users who require a portable solution. Users who want to attend meetings or travel with their computers Users on HR hybrid work program, with remote work arrangements Users who primarily work with documents, web browsing and need to make video calls Everyday Windows Laptop Everyday macOS Laptop Everyday Desktops The best devices for most users working primarily on campus. High performing, cost effective solution Users who primarily work with documents and web browsing Users who only require a computer at one designated location Persona 1 of HR hybrid work program A monitor or other accessories may be required to use this equipment. Everyday Windows Desktop Includes wired keyboard and mouse Monitor recommended Everyday macOS Desktop Includes wireless keyboard and mouse Task-Intensive Laptops and Desktops Task-Intensive are specialized computers designed for users who engage in computationally intensive and mission-critical tasks, such as 3D modeling and rendering, scientific simulations, video editing, CAD (Computer-Aided Design), and professional content creation. Task-Intensive are built with a focus on stability, reliability, and long-term performance to ensure they can handle continuous, demanding workloads without failure. Task-Intensive Laptops The", "NOTE:\n\nwho engage in computationally intensive and mission-critical tasks, such as 3D modeling and rendering, scientific simulations, video editing, CAD (Computer-Aided Design), and professional content creation. Task-Intensive are built with a focus on stability, reliability, and long-term performance to ensure they can handle continuous, demanding workloads without failure. Task-Intensive Laptops The best choices for users working on resource intensive applications and activities who need to convenience of a mobile system. Exceptional performance and portability Users on HR hybrid work program, with remote work arrangements Users who are 3D modelling, running multi-variant data analysis, rendering video graphics, etc. Task-Intensive Windows Laptop Task-Intensive macOS Laptop Task-Intensive Desktops The best devices for most users working primarily on campus. Exceptional performance and cost effective solution Users who only require computers at one designated location Users who are 3D modelling, running multi-variant data analysis, rendering video graphics, etc. A monitor or other accessories may be required to use this equipment. Task-Intensive Windows Desktop Includes wired keyboard and mouse Monitor recommended Task-Intensive macOS Desktop Includes wireless keyboard and mouse Monitor recommended Related Articles (1) Peripherals and Accessories Selection of recommended peripherals and accessories to enhance use of computer equipment.", "Hardware Lifecycle Services Asset Management Standard Device Acquisition", "OVERVIEW\n\nA selection of commonly needed computer accessories to enhance the usefulness of a workspace. Monitors Docking Stations Other Accessories Order Accessories", "MONITORS\n\nRecommended accessory for desktop users and mobile users wishing to work on larger or additional screens.", "Monitors come in two categories:\n\nStandard Video Conferencing (include components like a built-in camera, speakers and network or USB hub) 24\" Standard Monitor 24\" Video Conferencing Monitor with built-in hub 34\" Curved Video Conferencing Monitor with built-in hub", "DOCKING STATIONS\n\nRecommended accessory for mobile users. Docking stations allow mobile users to connect to external monitors, wired network connections and other wired peripherals like keyboards, mice, cameras and headsets. Docking Station Thunderbolt Docking Station for Mac", "OTHER ACCESSORIES\n\nOther productivity accessories. Multiport Adapter Wireless Keyboard and Mouse Corded USB Headset USB-C AC Adapter Related Articles (1) Standardized Computers Selection of recommended computer hardware.", "Telephone and Switchboard The Telephone Switchboard offers directory assistance and operator assistance to the SFU community. As most outgoing calls from the University have 778-782-3111 as the advertised caller ID, the Switchboard acts as a catch-all for a wide variety of inquiries and requests.", "CAMPUS DIRECTORY\n\nSFU Campus Building SFU Campus Address SFU Campus Switch Board Burnaby Campus Simon Fraser University 8888 University Drive Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6 Canada 778-782-3111 Vancouver Campus Simon Fraser University 515 West Hastings Street Vancouver, BC V5B 5K3 Canada 778-782-3111 Morris J. Wosk Centre for Dialogue Simon Fraser University 580 West Hastings Street Vancouver, BC V6B 5K3 Canada 778-782-5800 Segal Graduate School of Business Simon Fraser University 500 Granville Street Vancouver, BC V6C 1W6 Canada 778-782-5013 Alexander Centre - Bartlett Gallery Simon Fraser University 300 - 611 Alexander Street Vancouver, BC V6C 1E1 Canada 604-253-3599 Surrey Campus Simon Fraser University 205 - 13450 102nd Street Surrey, BC V3T 0A3 Canada 778-782-3111 Surrey E Campus Simon Fraser University 10285 University Drive Surrey, BC V3T 0N1 Canada 778-782-7727", "PHONE DIRECTORY\n\nIf you cannot view the PDF file, you may need to install Adobe Acrobat Reader (free download) SFU Green Pages - PDF Departmental Listing SFU Yellow Pages - PDF Alphabetical Listing", "GET HELP\n\nEmail addresses are available through Campus Email Directory", "Administrative and Business Business Capability and Process Automation Enterprise Service Management", "DETAILS\n\nwhat is servicehub? ServiceHub is an IT service management solution that provides a list of services users can access, knowledge articles about how things work and a means for support teams to organize, track and collaborate through to provide help to users with problems they encounter using SFU systems or tools. what kind of information can I find on Servicehub? You can find information about services and systems that IT Services support or facilitate access to. Many articles are how-to or self-help in nature so you can learn how to use the many tools available at SFU. how do i find what i am searching for? There are a couple of ways to find articles or services in ServiceHub. The best option is to use the search bar at the top right of the webpage. There is also one in the center of the ServiceHub landing page. If you want to refine your search, you can focus it by clicking on the triangle beside the Globe icon and select between All, Knowledge Base or Service Catalog. In most cases, searching All is fine. You can search for the most relevant information based on your role at SFU. Alternatively, you can use a search engine (e.g. Google, DuckDuckGo, Yahoo, etc.) to find knowledge articles.", "DO I NEED TO SIGN IN TO USE SERVICEHUB?\n\nIt is best practice to sign in to use any system at SFU. For ServiceHub specifically, most information students, faculty and staff may need to find is public. But there are articles, services and support avenues that only work when you are signed in. To sign in, click the Sign In link in the upper right corner. how do I know if I'm signed into servicehub? You'll see your name in the upper right corner of the page.", "SOMETHING ISN'T WORKING AS I EXPECTED. HOW DO I GET HELP?\n\nFirst, make sure you are signed into ServiceHub. Check to see if there is a Service Outage. If the service you are having trouble with is reported as being out, try again when the scheduled outage ends or follow the directions included in the outage. If the service is not scheduled for an outage or there is no outage report, click on the Get Help button to fill out a support ticket. I can't log in! How do i get help? There are many reasons why you may not be able to sign in to submit a support ticket. If you are experiencing trouble signing in, you can open a ticket by clicking on the Can\u2019t Log In button. Be sure to include an external email address or phone number the Service Desk team can reliably contact you at. I need help urgently and don\u2019t have time or ability to file a ticket. What do I do? If your matter is urgent, it is best to call (778-782-8888) or visit your local IT Services help desk . If you have dedicated IT support for your department or faculty, reach out to them. ServiceHub Ticketing Application FAQ For FAQs on ServiceHub Ticketing App (TDNext) for ticketing agents and technicians, please visit this article . Related Articles (1) How to gain access to ServiceHub Ticketing App (TDNext) This article describes how to gain access to ServiceHub Ticketing App (TDNext).", "Infrastructure Integration Services", "OVERVIEW\n\nA real-time data repository containing a subset of student data for the use of ITS supported systems. Data is accessed via secured APIs.", "Includes:\n\nData provisioning from goSFU", "Related services:\n\ngoSFU, Student Services Data Mart (SSDM), Salesforce, OASIS, eTRACS, IDCARDs, BAA Tableau reports and the Data Warehouse (EDWBI).", "DETAILS\n\nData Hub - Tables Inventory - List of Available Tables Data Hub - Data Request for APIs (for ATS Developers) SFU Data Hub", "Software and Application Distribution Microsoft Copilot How your data is protected while using Microsoft 365 Copilot Responsible Use of Copilot at SFU (S.A.F.E-A.I) Data Hygiene while using Microsoft 365 Copilot SFU Privacy Office Advisory How your data is protected while using Microsoft 365 Copilot Microsoft 365 Copilot and Copilot Chat are covered by same the enterprise data protection (EDP) that protects your emails and documents in OneDrive/SharePoint, so you can confidently work using the privacy and security features that safeguard your data.", "While using Copilot:\n\nYour privacy is preserved : Your data is only used to support your work, never to train AI models. Privacy protections align with global standards like GDPR and ISO/IEC 27018. SFU organizational policies apply : Copilot respects your existing access controls (such as sensitivity labels and sharing permissions) so you're in control of the content you want share with it. If you haven't provided access to something, Copilot won't have access to it either. You're guarded against AI risks : Protections are in place to help prevent harmful content, prompt injections, and copyright issues, so you can use Copilot confidently. Your data powers your experience, not the AI model : Prompts, responses, and data are accessed through the same mechanism (Microsoft Graph) that protects your emails and content to generate relevant answers for you, but are not used to train foundation models.", "Interested in learning more? See more details about:\n\nData Privacy and Security for Copilot Chat Data Privacy and Security for Microsoft 365 Copilot Responsible Use of Copilot at SFU As you use Copilot (or any AI solution) it's important to keep in mind that these tools are designed to be very human-like but are not human. They may not consider the same ethical implications or commitments that you might have and do not have the same responsibilities. During your interactions, you should remain critical of results while understanding the strengths, weaknesses, and limitations of these tools. Below, are several guiding principals from an SFU perspective that can help you responsibly engage with AI. Also see our deep-dive into these topics so you can use AI in a confident and thoughtful way.", "S.A.F.E-A.I.\n\nSecure AI systems must protect personal data and be built with strong safeguards against unauthorized access. Security ensures that information is handled responsibly throughout the system\u2019s lifecycle and that robust security controls are in place to prevent abuse. Use only university-reviewed systems when entering personal information into AI tools, to ensure compliance with institutional privacy and security standards. Conduct Privacy Impact Assessments (PIAs) for new AI solutions, and update PIAs if they have significantly changed. Apply security safeguards proportional to data sensitivity . While evaluating AI solutions, choose privacy-protective technologies. Accountable Organizations must remain answerable for how AI systems are developed and used. This includes ensuring decisions can be traced, data is used legally, and people \u2014 not machines \u2014 are ultimately responsible. You remain accountable for content generated by AI solutions you use, including the impacts of its use elsewhere. Responses from AI generated content must not be treated as a source of authority. If you are an SFU employee, do not use AI to collect personal information from public sources (such as websites, social media...etc.) except where specifically authorized and only after informing the individuals whose data is being collected. Understand that when AI generates information about a specific person\u2014even if it's guessed or inferred\u2014it still counts as personal data and must be handled according to privacy laws. Ensure that any personal information entered into AI systems is handled in accordance with the original Collection Notice and relevant privacy obligations, including the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy ActLinks to an external site. or applicable university policies for your area. When considering AI solutions identify the impacts they could have on individuals or groups. Evaluate if it will be necessary for your purpose and not merely convenient. Fair AI should treat individuals equitably and avoid bias in", "S.A.F.E-A.I.\n\nPrivacy ActLinks to an external site. or applicable university policies for your area. When considering AI solutions identify the impacts they could have on individuals or groups. Evaluate if it will be necessary for your purpose and not merely convenient. Fair AI should treat individuals equitably and avoid bias in outcomes. Fairness means ensuring that no group is unfairly advantaged or disadvantaged by automated decisions. Ensure the content you curate while using AI does not amplify biases or violate human rights, accessibility, or fairness obligations you have at the university. Explainable (Transparency) Transparency in AI builds trust and enables scrutiny. Users must be able to understand how AI systems work, verify their outputs, and justify decisions informed by AI. You are responsible for verifying responses provided by AI. If you are unable to verify and explain results, then consider not using them. You remain responsible for the execution and transparency of decisions informed or made by AI Solutions. Ensure AI generated content doesn't falsely impersonate or misrepresent you, others, or any other additional commitments you have (such as copyrighted content). Be transparent when others are interacting with AI generated content created vs. human generated content. Mark outputs with significant impact as AI-generated. Clearly inform people when AI is used in decision-making, with recourse options available. Auditable (Safety & Reliability) AI systems must be regularly reviewed to ensure reliability and safety. Auditing allows issues to be identified early and supports responsible oversight and continuous improvement. If you are using an AI solution, ensure results or content it generates adheres to legal commitments, code of ethics, or other responsibilities you have in your role at the university. It will be incumbent on you to audit your use of AI in a reliable and safe manner. AI itself cannot take responsibility. When developing", "S.A.F.E-A.I.\n\nsolution, ensure results or content it generates adheres to legal commitments, code of ethics, or other responsibilities you have in your role at the university. It will be incumbent on you to audit your use of AI in a reliable and safe manner. AI itself cannot take responsibility. When developing and supporting AI solutions that will be used by others, understand your responsibility to maintain them in a reliable and safe manner. Establish regular audits and testing to ensure your AI solution does not cause harm (such as disinformation, hate speech, or violent/illegal instructions). Remain informed about the limitations of AI solutions you use and assess whether they are suitable for your use. AI systems can provide inaccurate results if they aren't built for your context. Inclusive AI systems should be designed to serve people of all backgrounds and abilities. Inclusivity means considering diverse needs to promote accessibility, representation, and equal participation. Prioritize AI solutions that are designed to be accessible and supportive of people with diverse abilities, ensuring everyone can use and benefit from them. Avoid AI marginalizing groups or individuals; ensure datasets and outputs reflect diversity and equity. Learn more about responsible AI in our deep-dive article . Data hygiene while using Copilot When you're using Microsoft 365 and tools like Copilot, it's easy to forget how much information you're actually sharing and storing. That\u2019s why it\u2019s important to keep your data clean and organized. By being mindful about how you share files, label sensitive content, and manage old documents, you can make sure you're working safely and smartly. Here are a few simple ways to stay on top of your data hygiene while using Microsoft 365. Guarding Against Oversharing Microsoft 365 is a great platform for collaboration and productivity, however, content owners may inadvertently share more content", "S.A.F.E-A.I.\n\nold documents, you can make sure you're working safely and smartly. Here are a few simple ways to stay on top of your data hygiene while using Microsoft 365. Guarding Against Oversharing Microsoft 365 is a great platform for collaboration and productivity, however, content owners may inadvertently share more content than they need (often called \" Oversharing \"). It will be important to consider the following when sharing content on the Microsoft 365 platform: Pick the right level of access for each link you make when you share a document. For example, you can share your work with anyone, only with people in your organization, or only the people you choose . If you create \"Anyone\" links that can be shared publicly, set an expiry date on the link . This means that your links will stop working after at time you define. This can help ensure that content isn't shared forever and reduces the burden of managing links overall. Regularly review your links using the \"My Content\" feature in the M365 portal. Under the \"Shared\" tab, you can filter through all the links you've made and who can use them. You can also change or delete any links that you don't need or want anymore. For an in-depth overview of how each link works while sharing information see: How shareable links work in OneDrive and SharePoint in Microsoft 365 . Classifying Sensitive Data As an AI companion, Copilot Chat will be able to interact with documents and content that you share with it or have the permission to view while using \"Work\" mode with the Microsoft 365 Copilot version. As a result, it may review documents that contain sensitive information such as: Personal Information: Such as names, addresses, phone numbers, personal email addresses, social security numbers, etc. Confidential or", "S.A.F.E-A.I.\n\nyou share with it or have the permission to view while using \"Work\" mode with the Microsoft 365 Copilot version. As a result, it may review documents that contain sensitive information such as: Personal Information: Such as names, addresses, phone numbers, personal email addresses, social security numbers, etc. Confidential or Sensitive Content: Including proprietary business information, financial details, legal documents, or any other information intended to be kept private For documents that contain sensitive information, practice SFU's guidelines for data", ". This can include:\n\nData minimization : Where documents and content only contain the amount of data needed for a specific task. Principal of least privilege : Where data is only shared with other SFU employees in alignment with their role and duties. Practicing Data Lifecycle Management Regularly review and remove documents or content that are no longer needed in Microsoft 365. For documents that need to be archived and retained in the long term for legal reasons, store them in the appropriate location identified by your department. For example, store the final version of Word document in a network file-share or other system that has been identified as the archive space for your area. For more guidance about file lifecycle management in Microsoft 365, see the following recommendations from the SFU Archives and Records Management department: File lifecycle management in OneDrive File lifecycle management in MS Teams Advisory Notice from the SFU Privacy Office on the use of Microsoft 365 Copilot In using this service, you agree to limit the upload, prompt, submission, or provision of access to documents or information that contains or includes personal (non-business contact information) or confidential information to this Microsoft 365 Copilot AI companion that is not strictly necessary. We urge all users to exercise caution and ensure that any personal information disclosed or used within the Microsoft 365 Copilot AI is done so in strict accordance with the Collection Notice under which the information was originally collected. For greater clarity Personal Information: may include student names, private non-business addresses, non-work related phone numbers, non-work related email addresses, social security numbers, employment or education history, etc. For a more expansive list of personal information data elements please see: https://www.sfu.ca/content/dam/sfu/policies/files/information_policies/I10-11/I10.11 Schedule 1 - May 29 2021.pdf For greater clarity Confidential or Sensitive Content: Including regulated data, proprietary business information,", ". This can include:\n\nnon-business addresses, non-work related phone numbers, non-work related email addresses, social security numbers, employment or education history, etc. For a more expansive list of personal information data elements please see: https://www.sfu.ca/content/dam/sfu/policies/files/information_policies/I10-11/I10.11 Schedule 1 - May 29 2021.pdf For greater clarity Confidential or Sensitive Content: Including regulated data, proprietary business information, financial details, legal documents, or any other information that is confidential in nature regarding the university. Please avoid relying on any responses from this Microsoft 365 Copilot AI companion to make decisions concerning individuals unless you have verified the accuracy of the information provided to, and statements provided by, this Microsoft 365 Copilot AI companion. Should you have any inquiries or concerns regarding the appropriate use of this platform, please contact the SFU Microsoft 365 team via the ITS Service Hub at https://servicehub.sfu.ca/ . We would like to caution users about the responsible use of Microsoft 365 Copilot AI. While AI enhances search and productivity capabilities, and user experience, it is essential to be mindful of its potential consequences. Please consider the following when providing prompts to the AI : Ensure that personal information entered into prompts is done in accordance with the Collection Notice under which that information was collected. If any personal information is entered, please ensure that it is handled responsibly, in accordance with any Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (RSBC 1996, c.165) and university policy related obligations you may have. As AI can inadvertently amplify misinformation. Users should critically evaluate information and cross-reference information generated with reliable sources to verify the accuracy of search results. AI algorithms may unintentionally reflect biases. Be aware that search results can carry inherent biases, and it's crucial to critically evaluate information generated by AI. Please be advised that all prompts entered into Microsoft 365 Copilot AI products,", ". This can include:\n\ninformation generated with reliable sources to verify the accuracy of search results. AI algorithms may unintentionally reflect biases. Be aware that search results can carry inherent biases, and it's crucial to critically evaluate information generated by AI. Please be advised that all prompts entered into Microsoft 365 Copilot AI products, as well as the responses generated, are stored within the system regardless of how these responses are subsequently used or handled. It is your responsibility to adhere to these guidelines to maintain the privacy and security of personal information you have access to. Related Articles (4) Additional Learning Resources for Copilot Resources and learning paths that can help you get started with Microsoft 365 Copilot. Approved AI tools at SFU Information about, and guidance on the use of, the approved AI tools at SFU. Introduction to Prompts in Copilot Get familiar with the basics of constructing good prompts and learn about a few prompt engineering techniques so you get the most out of your questions to Copilot. Microsoft 365 Copilot Learn more about Microsoft 365 Copilot (a personalized productivity AI assistant) at SFU.", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support", "OVERVIEW\n\nGeneral purpose computer labs are available to students at each of the three campuses. Most student computer labs are equipped with PC and Mac computers, standard software, and printers. Standard software includes MS Office and Adobe Reader.", "DETAILS\n\nAdditional information about available student computer labs can be found by selecting the Campus location below. Burnaby Surrey Vancouver", "ACCESS REMOTE COMPUTER LABS\n\nStudents can learn more about how they can access remote computer lab resources based on their role on the here: Undergraduate students Graduate students", "PROVISION ACCESS FOR STUDENTS TO REMOTE COMPUTER LABS (IT STAFF)\n\nStudents can access student computer labs from off campus to use on-campus resources.", "MFA\n\nis required to access computer labs remotely. Remote Lab Access Related Articles (2) Student Computer Labs - Remote Access for Graduate Students Remote access to the computer labs as a graduate student. Student Computer Labs - Remote Access for Undergraduate Students Remote access to the computer labs as an undergraduate student.", "Desktop and Mobile Device Support Managed Devices", "OVERVIEW\n\nWith a remote desktop connection (also known as RDP), you remotely control an on-campus workstation by sending mouse clicks, movements and other desktop commands over the internet. RDP is a great way to access your on-campus desktop but comes with the technical overhead of maintaining an on-campus workstation. Remote desktop connections are a convenient way to connect to on-campus computers (such as an office PC or Mac) from a remote computer (such as a business laptop at home). MFA and SFU VPN are Required From Off-Campus, MFA and SFU VPN are required to access remote desktop for Windows: Be signed in to SFU's virtual private network (SFU VPN) before connecting to an on-campus computer. Ensure your SFU account is enrolled in multi-factor authentication", "DETAILS\n\nWindows Remote Desktop and WebWake The SFU WebWake system is a utility that allows you to wake your on-campus computer up from anywhere in the world. It was designed for the purpose of systems maintenance, as well as to give individual staff and faculty users the ability to turn on their computers while helping SFU to meet sustainability objectives in the realm of power savings. See WebWake Help for more information. SFU faculty and staff are able to remotely connect to on-campus managed Windows computers by using SFU's Virtual Private Network and Microsoft's Remote Desktop Protocol along with WebWake. Remotely Connect to a Windows Machine Mac Remote Desktop SFU faculty and staff are able to remotely connect to on-campus managed Mac computers by using SFU's Virtual Private Network and Apple's built-in Screen Sharing app. Remotely Connect to a Mac Machine", "Overview This article describes how to share, open, and remove shared folders from Outlook for Windows (Outlook 2021, M365). It is intended for individuals who are using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience . If you're using the previous version of SFU Mail, please see Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook for PC . Share your mailbox and mailbox folder(s) Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting", "Known Limitations:\n\nShares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online Owners can only share folder permissions with other individuals in the same environment. For example, if the folder owner is using SFU Mail with Exchange Online, they can only share their folders with other individuals who are also using SFU Mail with Exchange Online. Not sure which SFU Mail you're using? See the \"How do I know if I've been migrated?\" section in We're Upgrading SFU Mail . Details Sharing your mailbox folder in Outlook To share your mailbox folder, you'll need to do the following in sequence: Grant sharing permissions for your top-level mailbox Grant sharing permissions to your mailbox folder(s) Granting sharing permissions for your mailbox Right click your email address and select", "Folder Permissions:\n\nIn the Properties window, select Add... Search for and add the individual(s) you'd like to grant access to. Then click OK. Grant them with Permission Level, Read, Delete items, and Write set to \"None\". Grant them Folder visible . Then select", "OK\n\n. Granting sharing permissions for your mailbox folder(s) The process to grant sharing permissions for your mailbox folders is similar to granting permissions to your mailbox: Right click the folder and select Properties Select the Permissions tab in the Properties window. Then select Add... Search for and add the individual(s) you'd like to grant access to. When granting permissions to this folder, you may want to give them the following permissions or higher: Reviewer : reviewers can read your messages Nonediting Author : nonediting authors can read your messages and drop messages into a folder If the folder is a subfolder, repeat steps 1-4 for each folder the subfolder is nested in. Opening a mailbox folder that's been shared with you Select File Select Account Settings Select your account then click Change... Select More Settings Select the Advanced tab. Click Add... Enter the recipient's name or email address. Select the correct owner if you get more than one result. Then click OK. Select", "OK\n\nto finish. The shared folder will appear under your list of accounts on the left. Removing a shared mailbox Select File Select Account Settings Select your account then click Change... Select More Settings Select the Advanced tab. Select the account and click Remove . You'll be asked to confirm the removal of the mailbox. Troubleshooting Issue Cause Try the following Outlook stops responding after adding shared mailbox Appears to be a client-side issue. Outlook will resume function after waiting Make sure Outlook app is up to date Error message \"Cannot expand the folder\" Permissions have not yet had a chance to synchronize to the client. Close and re-open Outlook. Overview This article describes how to share, open, and remove shared folders from Outlook for Windows (Outlook 2021, M365). It is intended for individuals who are using the new SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience . If you're using the previous version of SFU Mail, please see Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook for PC . SFU Mail with Exchange Online experience Sharing Mail Folders: Outlook for PC Share your mailbox and mailbox folder(s) Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting Share your mailbox and mailbox folder(s) Share your mailbox and mailbox folder(s) Open and add a shared mailbox folder Open and add a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Remove a shared mailbox folder Troubleshooting Troubleshooting", "Known Limitations:\n\nShares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted.", "Known Limitations:\n\nShares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. Shares to maillists are not possible; only individual email addresses are permitted. SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online Owners can only share folder permissions with other individuals in the same environment. For example, if the folder owner is using SFU Mail with Exchange Online, they can only share their folders with other individuals who are also using SFU Mail with Exchange Online. Not sure which SFU Mail you're using? See the \"How do I know if I've been migrated?\" section in We're Upgrading SFU Mail . SFU Mail vs. SFU Mail with Exchange Online We're Upgrading SFU Mail", "How-To Guides", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes the how to sign into SFU Mail with sponsored accounts: Sign into SFU Mail on Web Browser with Sponsored Accounts Sign into SFU Mail on Outlook Desktop with Sponsored Accounts Sign into SFU Mail on Web Browser with Sponsored Accounts Encountering errors when signing in? Try clearing your browser cookies or use another web browser, then following the guide below. Alternatively, try signing into SFU Mail using your browser's incognito or private mode. Need to sign into multiple mailboxes? Be sure to use different browsers for each SFU Mail account you need to sign into. For example, you may want to use Firefox to monitor SFU Mail on your personal account while also using Google Chrome to monitor SFU Mail on your sponsored account.", "To sign into SFU Mail on web browser:\n\nGo to https://outlook.office.com", ", or select the button:\n\nVisit outlook.office.com Enter your Sponsored Account's SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca. Then, select . Enter your Sponsored Account's Computing ID and password , then select", "S\n\nign In .", "USING A SHARED SPONSORED ACCOUNT OR DELEGATE LOGIN?\n\nIf you're using a shared sponsored account , you may be able to sign in using delegate login (only if this feature has been enabled for the sponsored account by the sponsor/owner). To use delegate login, enter the delegate login format SponsoredAccountComputingID:YourComputingID (e.g, itshelp:sfuacc) as the username. Then, enter your password and MFA code to your personal SFU account . For details, visit Delegate Login for Shared Sponsored Accounts . If your sponsored account is enrolled in MFA, you'll be asked to enter the MFA code to the sponsored account. Congratulations! You've signed into SFU Mail on web browser on your sponsored account. Sign into SFU Mail on Outlook Desktop with Sponsored Accounts Want to install Outlook Desktop? Outlook Desktop is part of Microsoft 365, which is only available to current SFU staff, faculty and students and requires you to sign into your own SFU account. By default. sponsored accounts don't have the standard A3 licensing required for Microsoft 365 desktop apps. Alternatively, Outlook on Web Browser is available to all SFU Mail users. For instructions, visit Sign into SFU Mail on Desktop .", "To sign into SFU Mail on Outlook Desktop:\n\nLaunch Outlook and enter your Sponsored Account's SFU Email , SFUComputingID@sfu.ca. Then, select Connect . Not being prompted to connect? You may need to add as another account.", "To set up as another account on Outlook Desktop:\n\nWindows Mac Launch Outlook and go to the File tab on the top-left corner. Launch Outlook and go to the Tool tab on the top-left corner. Then, select Accounts... Select Add Account . Select the + (plus symbol) on the bottom-left corner. Then, select Add Email Account . Follow the steps as shown on your desktop. If you would like a guide, start at Step 1 on this guide. If you are prompted to select an account type, select Microsoft 365 . Otherwise, skip this step. Enter your Sponsored Account's Computing ID and password , then select Sign In. If your sponsored account is enrolled in MFA, you'll be asked to enter the MFA code to the sponsored account.", "USING A SHARED SPONSORED ACCOUNT OR DELEGATE LOGIN?\n\nIf you're using a shared sponsored account , you may be able to sign in using delegate login (only if this feature has been enabled for the sponsored account by the sponsor/owner). To use delegate login, enter the delegate login format SponsoredAccountComputingID:YourComputingID (e.g, itshelp:sfuacc) as the username. Then, enter your password and MFA code to your personal SFU account . For details, visit Delegate Login for Shared Sponsored Accounts . Select Done . Congratulations! You've signed into SFU Mail on Outlook Desktop. For a list of available guides, see SFU Mail - How-To Guides or Microsoft Training Center on Outlook on the Web (Videos) or Outlook for Windows and Mac (Videos) .", "Email Distribution Lists Overview Below are common questions about Simplelists: a service that provides a way to enable group discussions over email that include non-SFU members.", "HOW DO I FIND OUT MORE INFORMATION ABOUT SIMPLELISTS?\n\nSee the Email Distribution Lists service page about Simplelists at SFU. The vendor also has support and information at their homepage https://www.simplelists.com", "SIMPLELISTS APPEARS TO BE A FEE-FOR-SERVICE TOOL. IS THERE A COST TO USE THE SERVICE?\n\nSFU has an account with Simplelists. Any email address can participate in a list as a member, but if you wish to host a list with a @lists.sfu.ca email address you must be an SFU Account holder and request access from the Email Distribution Lists service page.", "DOES SFU HAVE AN ENTERPRISE LICENSE FOR SIMPLELISTS?\n\nYes. As an SFU Account holder, you can request access from the Email Distribution Lists service page.", "SHOULD I USE CAMPAIGNER OR SIMPLELISTS FOR SENDING EMAILS TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS?\n\nThere are three ways to manage email lists at SFU, Campaigner or Simplelists are for any email list that contains at least one external member (an address that is not in \"sfu.ca\"). If your email is for non-marketing, internal communications to sfu.ca email addresses, use SFU Maillist instead. If your message is at all marketing related such as advertising events, services, programs, broad outreach to large groups of people with no discussion between those members, Campaigner is the best tool as it meets all the requirements for allowing people to manage their subscriptions in marketing messages. It is one-way messaging only: from you to the members. Simplelists' primary use case is groups of people who need to communicate as a group. For example, a researcher who is an expert in a topic at SFU that wants to host a discussion on that topic with people at other institutions in Canada or worldwide. Think of a discussion forum where all the members can interact. Functionally Simplelists will perform a similar role to something like Google Groups email forums, but provides an email address that shows the discussion is being hosted at SFU with an email address in the form: listname @lists.sfu.ca HOW DO I CREATE or manage LISTS IN SIMPLELISTS? First, as an SFU Account holder you must request an account in order to host one or more lists. Request access at the Email Distribution Lists service page.", "Once you have access, see help at the vendor's website:\n\nhttps://www.simplelists.com/support/", "HOW DO I ADD/REMOVE EMAILS IN SIMPLELISTS?\n\nFirst, as an SFU Account holder you must request an account in order to host one or more lists. Request access at the Email Distribution Lists service page.", "Once you have access, see help at the vendor's website:\n\nhttps://www.simplelists.com/support/ What are approved uses of SIMPLELISTS? Are there limitations to its use? Simplelists is intended to help the University support its research and academic mission where communication with non-SFU account holders requires email. List approvals will be subject to the lists being related to the activities of the University Properly representing the membership and ownership of the list, not appearing to represent another entity using list names that use appropriate language without language that profanity, is intentionally misleading, or otherwise problematic as a public SFU service Lists that are misrepresentative, misleading, or use offensive language may be removed or disabled by the administrators of the SimpleLists service Related Services / Offerings (1) Email Distribution Lists Tools that provides the ability to send email messages to multiple email addresses using a list or a group.", "OVERVIEW\n\nIf your credit or debit card has been charged, yet the corresponding balance does not appear in your PaperCut account, please adhere to the following procedure.", "HOW TO REQUEST A REFUND OR CREDIT\n\nTo initiate a refund or credit request, please follow these steps: Create a ticket", ", ensuring to include the following details:\n\nUse \"PaperCut Transaction Issue\" as the brief description. Your computing ID. The approximate date and time of the transaction(s). The amount of the transaction(s). Provide a screen capture or photo of your bank statement depicting the transaction(s). Specify whether you would like the transaction(s) to be reversed or reflected in your PaperCut balance. Related Articles (4) PaperCut FAQ Frequently asked questions about PaperCut. Printing & Cash Loading Locations Locations for printing and adding printing credit using cash. Refund Policy PaperCut refund policy and how to request a refund. Transferring Printing Funds Transfer printing funds to another student. Related Services / Offerings (1) PaperCut is the printing service for SFU & FIC students, available in computer labs and libraries across all three campuses.", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to re-share a calendar as a solution to shared calendars no longer working after the SFU Mail upgrade to Exchange Online.", "PART B: Re-instate your Shared Calendar\n\nHow to Re-share a Calendar", "DO YOU KNOW THE OWNER OF YOUR SHARED CALENDAR?\n\nYou will need to know who is the owner of the shared calendar before proceeding. In some cases, you may be able to check who is the calendar owner by taking the following steps: Create a New Event Select \"<Your Shared Calendar>\" Go to Scheduling Assistant See if there is a user who cannot be removed under Required Attendees. This most likely is the Calendar Owner. Note : If the owner of the shared calendar is no longer reachable, send a request ticket on IT ServiceHub . Note : Both the Calendar Owner and yourself need to be upgraded to Exchange Online for shared calendars to work properly. Note : Please use SFU Mail on Browser while following this guide. Other email applications, such as Thunderbird, may not be able to add the calendar via invitation link.", "PART A: Receive the Shared Calendar Invitation\n\nTake note on the Calendar Name and Calendar Owner (i.e., on a piece of paper or text file). Keep this as reference to prevent any accidents. Reach out to the Calendar Owner and ask to re-add your permissions on the shared calendar. The Calendar Owner can take the following steps", "to accomplish this:\n\ni. Select the Calendar View. ii. Hover over the Shared Calendar and select \"...\" > Sharing and permissions. iii. Select the Trash bin next to any SFU accounts that are encountering issues with your shared calendar. iv. Enter the previously removed SFU accounts . Then, select the account . v. Change permissions per your business need. Then, select Share . vi. Congratulations! Your users should receive an email on the calendar invitation.", "PART B: Re-instate your Shared Calendar\n\nOnce the Calendar Owner has re-shared your permissions, you should receive an email invitation to the shared calendar. To re-instate your shared calendar, you can complete the following steps", ":\n\n1. Ensure that you have the shared calendar email invitation from your Calendar Owner. 2. Select the Calendar View . 3. Hover over the Shared Calendar and select \"...\" > Remove. 4. Select Remove . 5. Go back to your shared calendar email invitation and select the \"Accept and view calendar\" button on the email. 6. Congratulations! You've re-instated your shared calendar. It should appear on your Calendar View .", "OVERVIEW\n\nThis article describes how to re-add a shared mail folder or mailbox as a solution to shared mail folders/mailboxes no longer working after the SFU Mail upgrade to Exchange Online. How to re-add a shared mail folder or mailbox Note : Both the Folder Owner (or Shared Mailbox) and yourself need to be upgraded to Exchange Online for shared folders to work properly. Note : Please use SFU Mail on Browser while following this guide to ensure a smoother experience.", "To re-add a shared mail folder or mailbox:\n\n1. Take note on the Folder Name and Folder Owner or Shared Mailbox (i.e., on a piece of paper or text file). Keep this as reference to prevent any accidents. 2. Hover over the shared Folder Owner / Shared Mailbox and select \" ... \" > Remove Shared Folder . 3. Hover over your Folders and select \" ... \" > Add shared folder or mailbox . 4. Enter the Folder Owner's / Shared Mailbox's name or email address . Then, select Add . 5. Congratulations! You've re-added a shared mail folder or mailbox. The Folder Owner / Shared Mailbox should appear near the bottom. Select it to expand any shared folders you have permissions to."]